In his work The Historian’s Craft, Marc Bloch explores the methodology engaged in by the historian, discussing his/her object of study. According to Bloch, history is the “science of men in time,” meaning that humans are always at the forefront of, or at least standing closely beside, historical investigation, and the ways in which these particular humans behave in time create the boundaries for the historical science. As a result, historians must do history in ways which make use of a variety of techniques that a historian must be skilled in. These skills range from archaeology to economics and from sociology to geology, in order for the historian the obtain a clearer picture of the event being historically investigated. At the end of my reading of the third chapter of Bloch’s work I found myself doubting my abilities to be a successful historian. While I feel I am relatively competent in reading certain types of historical documents and analyzing them for their historical merit, I am far from competent in other areas Bloch sees as essential for historical investigation. I do not know how to read economic ledgers and silt deposits. What then am I to do? Am I to become a master of every art and science both in the modern and ancient world or am I to abandon history altogether due to my inability to achieve this impossible task? I believe that neither is the correct answer and instead we must review the foundations of Bloch’s history. 

Looming behind Marc Bloch’s methodological analysis of the task of the historian lies Bloch’s presuppositions for the purpose of history. These presuppositions spring forth in the introduction where Bloch investigates what particular use history serves. For Bloch history as a discipline is birthed out of a will to understand. We do history to understand what happened in our past. Historical success for Bloch is defined in the science’s ability to “provide explanatory relationships between phenomena” (Bloch, 10). Successful history, at its foundation, involves analyzing both a particular event (by event I mean human experience in time) and how that event situates itself in greater time. If this is the purpose of history then all the fields that Bloch states contribute to the field of history are required for responsible history, and ultimately successful history is impossible. However, what if Bloch’s view of history’s purpose is not the only desirable use? Imagine, instead of passing through the practically infinite pieces of historical evidence to arrive at the event, successful history was accomplished through analyzing those pieces of evidence we have access to and not assuming that they will always get us to the event itself. Imagine, seeing historical documents or archeological finds as ends in themselves, capable of telling a historical narrative that is just as valuable. Imagine history as less of an objective, scientific investigation into the event itself and more as a humble exploration of the remnants of the event and how those remnants fit into and redefine a social imagination that forms and shapes us in our present.
