<p>As I finished Bloch’s “The Historian’s Craft,” my niece asked me what I had been reading. I tried to explain the broad concept Bloch utilized throughout his book: history is the “science of men in time.” Obviously, her eight-year-old mind immediately pointed to the “men” component. What about women, she asked. Though my interpretation of Bloch did not exclude women in time, her comment got me thinking about Bloch’s definition. I feel one key element is missing. To me, history is the science of men in time and the events surrounding them. To study history, scholars should not focus exclusively on the men in time but how those men shaped key historical events and how those events shaped men.</p>

<p>“Two things will always be necessary for the practice of a science: a subject matter but also a man,” Bloch writes. “Human reality, like that of the physical world, is vast and variegated.” In essence, Bloch is describing a historian’s need to analyze. He accurately describes the difference between a judge and a scholar, and the need for historians to avoid making value judgments in his analyses. If history is truly a science, it falls under the social science category on par with political science, sociology, psychology and the like rather than the hard sciences. Here is one particular issue I do take with Bloch’s discussion of history as a science because he compares it to that of geology, biology and chemistry. Social scientists cannot use the same controls in their studies as those in the hard sciences. The unpredictability and irrationality of human behavior contribute heavily here. Granted there is no going back in time to change human activity, one is still trying to analyze why individuals acted a certain way.</p>

<p>Toward the end of his book, Bloch describes a hypothetical situation where other elements could cause a man to trip, such as terrain, yet it is called a misstep. These other factors played a part. Take, for example, the Second World War. Typically one think of World War II taking place from 1939 when Hitler invades Poland to 1945 with the Japanese surrender to the United States. However, one can argue that the conditions that led to World War II stemmed from the aftermath from World War I. If that view is taken, then one can make the case that World War II is simply a continuation of the first conflict and is, therefore, one world war. The events caused by men before then led other men to act in a particular fashion. Had the victors not imposed such harsh punishment on the Germans, then perhaps Hitler would have never come to power. </p>

<p>This only complicates the method of periodization. When does one period stop and the next period begins. Certainly historians need to classify these periods for reference purposes. However, as in the previous war example, a “world war” is not when a series of states officially declare war on another state. The study into the cause must be made.</p>

<p>-- J.R. Oppenhiem</p>
