Marc Bloch’s first two chapters in his book, The Historian’s Craft, ring true to any student of history. As humans, we seem to have a natural inclination to understanding our past. But the question asked of every student of history is “why study history?” An even better question is “what use is history?” Bloch, in his book, attempts to answer both questions. Being a student of history, I’m often asked what I will do with my degree once finished with my undergraduate studies. Now, for a bit of context; I have career in which I’m quite accomplished. However, many people fail to understand the benefits of studying history. To most, I must be studying history with the ultimate goal of becoming a teacher. I, and many other students of history, have no such intent. Being dismissive, I simply reply that history is a hobby. But, as Bloch explains, it is an intellectual endeavor; it is something that helps me live better. Why should I be so dismissive of those inquiring minds of my own intent? It probably has more to do with the common understanding of the study of history. I believe this is the fault of both the historian and the student of history. We do not adequately explain the use and benefit of history to those outside the discipline. As a consequence, as Bloch states, the non-historian forms his or her own picture of what a historian does and why. To most, history is a timeline; a listing of events in order that explain only that something happened. How does one explain that history cannot and should not be measured in such fashion? It isn’t that events happened that is the occupation of the historian; more, it is the context and setting of how and why those events happened. Bloch explains that events can never be understood outside their moment in time. Presentism is something that those in the discipline of history must counter. 

Often, I’m asked “how do you know something happened if you didn’t see it?” This is also a common question asked of evolutionary scientist by those espousing a philosophy of divine creation. As students of history, we depend on our observations of the past. We may not have witnessed an event, but someone else did. Another person had an opinion about what another person witnessed; this is evidence as well. Without a time machine, the only observation that a historian can make is of the available evidence at that time. As historians develop or discover more evidence of the past, the discipline progresses. This is difficult to explain; that history can be a progression. Bloch explains this with the acceptance of both intentional and un-intentional evidence. If were to write my memoir to today, that would be intentional. However, someone might be able to provide a listing of my visits to the public library, this would be un-intentional evidence. Both are evidence of what I have done at a given time. The historian should seek out both types and, as Bloch states, cross-examine it. By doing so, by testing the truth, history is a science.  
