History is the unique as Carr points out. We as historians use generalizations in combination with the unique aspects to help frame events. Carr uses war as an example and war does have a very general meaning, but I think that what is the point of the unique in the general is looking at the unique aspects of individual wars. They can be fought in various ways that change throughout time and places. Now wars can be fought with a computer where in the past they would be fought with more traditional weapons or by tactical moves like cutting off trade to regions. Finding the unique in the general is a major theme in this writing and it is shown through various avenues.

Carr’s depiction of good and evil makes me think about what I would find evil about a person. I feel like that is one of those things that would really depend on the individual and their experiences, but also on society and what the norms in that particular society are. Yes, there are certain acts that many people will hold a consensus on as being evil, but there are other things to consider. Imagine an Anthropologist who was hired by a foreign government to learn about a people, document their language, and become part of the community. But then after the work is done and published this Anthropologist finds out the government they were working for is using the information to harm the inhabitants. The evilness of this person would depend on who you asked. This brings me to the point Carr makes on causation and “accidental history”. Could you say that the Anthropologist and the people who were harmed were victims of an accident? Again yes, however, there were different causes that led to this outcome and just because some of it was accidental on the part of the Anthropologist it was likely that the foreign government had planned to use that information negatively all along. I personally don’t buy into the “accidental history” thing and agree that causes can be found behind all actions.

I found that Carr also focused much less on science and the science of man in this section. He discusses how knowledge is what keeps history from repeating. His claim was that people who are informed of the past are influenced in their decisions for the future. I think this is an incorrect statement and he is thinking too scientifically. It is the human element that makes the difference here and sets this apart from a regular science. As humans sometimes even though we have failed in the past we will try things again thinking there will be different outcome even if we have already proved that it wont work. 

Carr’s ideas about what history is and why it is I think reflect the time in which he wrote this book. I think that while a lot of his ideas still ring true for the historian that also a lot has changed. The unique is not what everyone is after so much anymore. As time has progressed many people want to know about topics that seemed mundane before. Social disciplines often now focus on the general, normal, and routine aspects of people’s lives in the past. Here I go with Anthropology again, but archaeology projects now frequently focus on general aspects of the lives and dwellings of average people.
