There is a very large theme of science throughout Carr’s work. I have noticed that he loves to toy with definitions of certain aspects of science, but I have also noticed that he likes to mold his definitions throughout the book. I did not find his arguments trusting, in the first half of the book, because of inconsistencies and contradictions. There is a whole section of the book in which he comments on relations between science and history. He claims that history should be considered as a study of science because it uses the same process. Yet he also claims that history can not be done without interpretation from the historian. Science is based off of consistent testing to create “facts,” Interpretations can not reach fact. In the first half of the book I thought Carr’s arguments were weak, but in the second half he begins to use certain definitions of science, in the practice of history in a very cohesive and smart way.

Throughout the chapter ‘Causation in History” he uses the word causation a lot, Causation in this section to Carr, meant for a historian answering ‘why.’ Causation in terms was solved through determinism which he defined “as the belief that everything that happens has a cause or causes, and could not have happened differently unless something in the cause or causes had also been different (Carr, 121).” This definition lays hand and hand with scientific definitions of the word which is to find with out doubt what causes a chemical reaction. If you put two causes (chemicals) together, the historian/scientist will only get one outcome. Another method that Carr uses especially in the chapter ‘History as Progress” is using scientific history, and accepted practice as examples to portray his thoughts of progress. He describes them as part of “the darwinian revolution appeared to remove all embarrassments by equating evolution and progress: nature, like history, turned out after all to be progressive (150).” Progress would not happen to all just some who decide to learn from it. In the last chapter of the book he used the word “universal” to describe the process that which all historians should practice their craft, just like scientist.This processes of molding definitions to suit historical process works for Carr in most situations, in the second half of the book.

He mentions science in only one section of one chapter of the book, but for the rest of the reading he constantly throws scientific terms to help the reader understand the point he is trying to convey. In my eyes he wants history to be just like science in terms of effectiveness, and accuracy. There is a way in his eyes to universalize the practice, and create historical facts that will help a society progress, and improve. He wants science to move, to progress in a circular way, and give a sense of the world in perpetual motion. While historians can create universal practice. he claims that history is open to interpretation, and that is the one term that is not at all universal, it is not factual, it can not be proven, it is not scientific, it is history.
