The answer to the question of what it is that a historian is meant to do is much more difficult to answer than anyone would have thought. Even the simplest answer of “a historian must tell what happened” cannot survive a few pages without a million other qualifications being added to it. A significant addition contributed by Carr is asking why, or assigning causes to events in history. A substantial part of this involved how the historian accounts for accidents. Carr seems to dismiss them as irrelevant to the bigger picture of historical events simply because they cannot be generalized into a lesson we (historians/ readers of today) can use. This implies that the true cause of an event is in itself unimportant unless we can benefit from its explanation in our society.

Furthermore, these causes are only identified as accidents because they do not fit into the logical succession of events envisioned by the historian. This also suggests that it is easy to tell the difference between “real” causes and accidental ones, which seems highly unlikely. In the same way that an audience cannot always tell whether a small detail in a movie was put there intentionally to make a subtle statement or accidentally, analysts of history would probably find it difficult to tell if something seemingly insignificant served a greater purpose that only a select few were aware of at the time.

While Carr’s example of the correlation, or lack thereof, between cigarette smoking and auto accidents is convincing in that accidents do not play a larger role than the logical cause-and-effect sequence of events, it gets us no closer to determining the actual causes of past events. How does he know that the “accident” was not the true cause of the event? It is highly debatable whether historical events occurred as described by historians, and even more so the causes behind them. What everyone seems to be shying away from is admitting that we do not know, and we cannot know. Historians try their best to rebuild the past in a way in which it might have happened and we need to accept the defeasibility of any historical account.

After reading both Bloch and Carr’s accounts concerning the nature of historians, it is becoming clear that each person has their own purposes, hidden or otherwise, for writing history. There is no such thing as a History that is infallibly and universally true. As Carr said earlier in the book, even primary documents are just one side of the story. If we have two accounts of one event, then the truth must lie somewhere in the middle. It is the historian who interprets and analyzes to find the middle, but that is just as, if not more, questionable than the original accounts themselves.
