I find reading Carr’s What Is History? to be a much needed breath of fresh air after reading Bloch. I found Bloch’s antidote to fixing historical analysis to be extremely unrealistic. The main problem I had with Bloch’s reasoning was his belief that there is such a thing as “raw materials” in history. I don’t believe there are “raw materials” in history, and Carr’s book provided excellent examples as to why I had such a problem accepting Bloch’s arguments.

For example, Carr believes that historical facts are never objective. I agree. One example he gives is the story concerning Gustav Streseman’s official papers. Historical facts are never objective because they are selected. In the story, he explains this selection process. It first began with Streseman himself, who painted himself overwhelmingly the better of anyone he had correspondence with. Then the process moved to his secretary, who compiled the papers in order to show more of his Western foreign policy, which was deemed to be more important even though he spent more time with Eastern foreign policy. Then, the papers moved to a translator, who cut out even more from his Eastern foreign policy correspondence. What is the effect of this process of selection? It creates fiction. There is no way to understand Gustav Streseman when using these “raw materials.” 

But as a student of history, what am I left with? The modernism of Block is not true. Yes, I believe scientific tools are absolutely necessary in proving hypotheses and eliminating bias, etc. But we still don’t truly know what is true because most sources are skewed. What I love about reading Carr is that he not only shows us the impossibility of finding historical facts, he shows us that there are other things historians can do that can be far more illuminating of both the present and the past then reading encyclopeadia entries. Carr is a great teacher, and I found many things he said to be great tools in analyzing historical works. Some of these are elementary, but, for me, they are illuminating. For example, he says that “imaginative understanding” is necessary for writing history; one must have contact of the other’s mind in order to more accurately write about him/her. Second, it is impossible to understand the work of an historian if you do not understand the mind of the historian, which means it is necessary to understand where the author stands in relation to his subject and to also understand the society he came from. Third, he believes it is not enough to just know the author’s name, but it is necessary to look at the date of publication, which may reveal a lot about why the author has chosen this subject. Fourth, he quotes Acton, who says that “history must be our deliverer not only from the undue influence of other times, but from the undue influence of our own, from the tyranny of environment and the pressure of the air we breathe.” I love this quote. Knowledge is illuminating; it is transcending. The more we know about the past in relation the present and vice versa, the more we are capable of rising above societal shackles that we are mostly unconscious of. Carr says it better at the end of the chapter: “To enable man to understand the society of the past and to increase his mastery over the society of the present is the dual function of history.” 
