__Diminished importance of Micro-historians__

Since I am definitely pro-microhistory I did not agree with everything that *Manifesto* was telling historians to do. I believe that microhistory is a significant part of why people become historians, so to diminish the work as background to a bigger, longer picture is noteworthy and somewhat disagreeable.  I think if the bigger picture is to be the main focus of history, according to the authors, then micro-histories should be flecked into that longue duree approached history. Micro-histories could be looked at as a ‘zoomed in’ segment of a very long history to show how people were handling the long term effects of a slowly changing event in that shorter window of time. I do think that Guldi and Armitage do not completely dismiss micro-histories but I think micro-historians’ work is a little more important than the authors give it credit.  

__The book was likeable because…__

The authors were trying to answer the big question we have been talking about in class which is why is history important? What USE is history? I think the book answered this part well. I liked the approach of the book because it was not questioning the techniques or use of history without giving resolutions. It was relaying to historians that history is important because to see the ebb and flow of trends in societies, policies, governments and even ecologies is important for the planet and its inhabitants. The reason historians are ever- important, according to Armitage and Guldi, is that historians are the best at critiquing where certain artifacts and documents came from, who it belonged to and why it was important enough to save or document. This skill that historians possess is key to understanding cause and effects of short and long term events. The authors seem to also believe that historians—along with this skill of classifying and critiquing artifacts and documents— need computer science expertise to be able to start classifying the recent phenomena of Big Data. This could potentially be another disagreeable idea from Guldi and Armitage for historians but I think that some knowledge in computer science would benefit historians today and in the future. We have already started doing this somewhat as 21st century history students. I mean, who has not already used the World Wide Web to write any of their history papers? Probably none of us. 
