Geertz’s article was, for me, by far one of the easiest readings we have had all semester. Since we have been talking about language usage for the past several weeks, the topic of a clear voice was in my head while reading Deep Play. The text  was clear, straight forward and thoroughly interesting. One of Joseph’s comments from the Withers’ reading kept coming to mind while reading Geertz and I continued to think that Geertz writing was more like an artist than a wordy intellectual. He starts off the article by discussing his frustration at being an outsider in Bali and I imagine that is how most historians feel when they are trying to research and find truth from past events. When Geertz was finally able to penetrate the shy, quiet, always-to-themselves Balinese people and open up a new world of information I found myself wishing I was an anthropology major and able to live IN a world I would someday study. 
The topic of masculinity and the cock and how the cock is seen as an extension of the male body was very interesting to me. Geertz does discuss in one of his footnotes that although men are the ones who raise, train, form relationships with, and fight the cocks in the ring women are not completely excluded from the fight areas. I found and watched videos of cock fights in Bali while I was reading the article and the setting seemed actually to be fairly calm compared to some American sports and pastimes. The videos were a lot like what Geertz described, from the wicker cages the cocks are kept in to the rounds that the cocks had to survive. I tried to notice the coconut and water basin but could not really tell how the rounds were timed. Some women were present although they were not as close to the fighting ring as the betters and were definitely not in the fighting ring either. What I found most interesting was that you really could not tell who was of what class and who might have been betting more. In Geertz’ writing he explains that you bet with, and for, your kin and he was probably extremely lucky to have found out that information because being an outsider watching the fights, you would NEVER think that there was so many rules, and such an elaborate system that went into effect when it was time for the cock fights to take place.
 After I had finished reading the article and thinking about how history and anthropology work together I changed my mind back to being glad I was a history major. Reading anthropologists’ work, no matter how long ago or how recent their studies took place, and placing it in a context with other historical information can be just as fascinating as being at a cock fight in Bali. I think Anthropology is a study that is extremely helpful to historians and either can be seen as subtopic to the other. Anthropologists need historians just as badly as historians need anthropologists and with both academies working together a new world can be discovered that maybe not many people knew about beforehand.  
