As I opened the document and began reading Clifford Geertz’ Deep Play, I thought it was an odd article to follow Levi-Strauss’ Myth and Meaning. There I was sitting on my couch reading about Balinese cock fighting wondering, why? As much as I know about cock fighting, my opinion of it is formed through a lens viewing it as cruel and in no way beneficial to anyone. In most cultures, the symbolism and structure of a cock fight have given way to the greed of gambling and lost any significance. However, a Balinese village in 1958 presents a dilemma for me. Is this cruelty or culture? Both? As I read on, I noted a structure that emerges within the cock fighting and on the periphery. It reminded me of ancient mythology of one god fighting another god as a way of explaining order. Or perhaps it was the ancient war where one country’s god fought the deity of another as a metaphor of the great battle that took place in reality. For the Balinese, the cockfight promotes kinship, culture, and meaning of self. The cock and the handler are one physically and spiritually. Bets will not be made against the village, the family, the self. 

Had Geertz and his wife not attended the cockfighting in Bali, what would he have written about their structure and meaning? Historians speak of perspective and context in primary and secondary source documents. The first-hand experience afforded to Geertz permits him a unique analysis of Balinese cockfighting. But what does this do to his own objectivity? I do not fault Geertz for running when the authorities arrived, but the consequence of that action is a subjective analysis of the event. As a student of history, what can I do with his analysis? What I want to do is become the bird hovering over the event, the fly on the wall; I want to be the non-participating observer of history. After reading Geertz, I must ask; is cockfighting wrong? The reporting of Balinese cockfighting from the perspective of an active observer might persuade me to say no. The people of Bali are connected to each other through cockfighting and gain different levels of meaning and kinship as a result of the fight. Should we then conclude that the gain justifies the act? What of cockfighting elsewhere? 

In Los Angeles, California, I recall a cockfighting ring that was broken up by the authorities. The neighborhood demographic was mostly first generation immigrants from Mexico who brought the cockfighting to the area. Being a fifth generation Mexican-American, and having been raised in a suburb of San Diego, I have no cultural connection to those involved in the cockfighting. I saw these events as cruel for the bird and as something that led to additional vice. In looking backward, my perspective of the event was devoid of any cultural analysis and did not take into account the meaning of the cockfights to those participating. At a minimum, it formed a kinship among those present. Had I a firsthand perspective of someone with a subject view (Geertz), would my opinion be different? I don’t know. But I would be able to report on everything from my own objective view. 
