  At first, I asked myself, "ok why does he have us reading about cock fights in Bali? Then i remembered that Professor Gibbs always has a good reason for making us read what we do. Of course, he was right. This was actually a more enjoyable read for me as it shed light upon many things. First, the realitvity of all cultures in our world. Perspective is everything with this article. I think more importantly, it sheds light upon the fact that as Historians, we spend so much time trying to udnerstand, study, and learn, about a culture from the outsie looking in that we are blinded by that perspective entirely. In reality, we must gain access to the culture by being on the inside looking out, whic is what Geertz successfully does. Thus he learns what many athropologists and historians could only fathom. He becomes emotionally attached to the culture bybeing on the inside looking out. By doing this, the village in Bali becomes more than just a space inside a place: it becomes a second home because he engaged in Balinese activities which made him one of them. He defid the Balinese government (which appearing as a rich white outsider would be considered rare actions) and engaged in an almost sacred activity to them, a cockfight. This all happened without his fabrication or intent so it would seem fate had a role to play with Mr. Geertz. I also enjoyed his analogy to sports here in the United States, although we Americans have a very different means of betting, spectating, establishing symbolism within the sports culture, and attendance the end result in both cock fighting and sports in the United States is the same. So does this mean the means justify the ends in History? Generally speaking no. But in this particular case, yes due to context. Its a great way of reminding us Historians that context matters. Perhaps the most important thing to take form this article is the experssion and magnification of cocks as symbolic of their masters and the direct inversion of cocks as huma status: animality. It's what separates us from them. If we did not have thought or reason to triumph over our passions and emotions we would be just like the cocks in Bali: animalistic. The Balinese go to a great extent to make sure their people do not be animalistic. A majority of cultures do that as well so it really depends on perspective of how one views the means of combating darkness and animality.
