Geertz presents a very interesting anthropological analysis of the Balinese cockfighting. My immediate reaction was interesting, as I found myself relating with his experiences. While I was traveling and working in Nicaragua, I found myself faced with a similar situation that he described. The initial responses from many of the villagers (those that we weren't directly working with or living with), were largely to leave us to our own accord. We had come to this small frontier village to help build a maternity clinic, yet our strikingly stark differences (a bunch of whiter people and one "chino") set us apart. It wasn't until after a few weeks of sweating together, of mixing cement and carrying bricks together, did that separation end. I bring this forward more than just as a personal story, but to highlight how Geertz's experience is non-unique. It is very clear that in our world of diverse cultures and varied personalities, it may seem completely unfathomable that these different groups could have anything in common. 

But just as Levi-Strauss discusses, it is in the general commonalties that offer an explanation to the human nature and through the study of those components, we can garner a deeper understanding. As such, I believe this is what Geertz's article gives us. Through his study of such a "primitive" activity as cockfighting, we can see many commonalities that reflected in numerous cultures around the world and throughout history. At face value, cockfighting seems to be barbaric and, as Geertz directly say, men just playing with their cocks. Yet, this is exactly the same as the Roman Gladiator's or the World Cup. There is a competition that pits the strength of one againist another. Additionally, the cockfighting isn't just a sporadic gathering of Bali people, but it is structured, organized. While we may look down upon such activity, it is not far off from the chaos that was seen during this last World Cup. This all highlights a seemingly cultural and societal norm of organized competition that extends through various civilizations and throughout history. By analyzing those similaritieswe can further our understanding of human nature, and thus make inferences to those groups so far back in history that we can no longer connect with. If this organized competition occurs today with cockfighting and football, and during the Roman Empire, maybe ancient caveman had a methodology to their cave fighting. 

Finally, Geertz likens this cockfighting as a social expression, such as music or poetry. And in many ways, I agree. Isn't everything we do, how we take our coffee to the actual literature we produce, all components of our culture? This is an important point to focus on, as it gives us another avenue to study our fellow man and the history they leave behind. Just as Levi-Strauss discussed, this art and such social expressions can give insights to the groups we hope to study, like myths. While their direct word for word analysis may not give us a historical record, but the convey the emotions, the actions, the spirit of the people at the time. And that is just as important as what happened, as it is the spirit that gives us as historians an understanding of that specific time and space. And again, by understanding the commonalities in the spirit of cultures throughout history, we can gain further insight in humanity in general. 
