__History Curriculum - Should Universities change it?__

Since I have only attended UNM I will only be talking about my knowledge of the curriculum and how it is set up at this university.  So, as we have been discussing history curriculum in class recently, I do have a few ideas about what to change in the history degree program. Before this class, I never really had any idea about macro vs. micro history, and that there were really different approaches to history. Although I didn’t know it, I was always a micro-historian at heart. 

I always thought the way the history degree program was set up was pretty muddled at UNM. Anytime I tell people I am a History Major, they always inquire as to what ‘kind’ of history. I usually reply with ‘American’ because I tend to take classes like, *Jacksonian Era*, or *US-Mexico Borderlands*. Although this would be my response to ‘what kind of history’ I am studying I know there are people in the class who would probably reply with ‘Russian’, or ‘Military’ history. 
I suppose what I would suggest for university curriculum to change about the degree is add a focused area for people who want to be micro-history majors and also explain—in a required 100 level class—the different paths a potential history major could take, whether it is a micro or macro approach. Instead of a required minor for (micro) history degree students, the university could add a focused area to the degree. For instance, I could tell people I have a History degree with a focus in American history and be required to take more classes that focus in that area. Others in the class could get their history degree focused in Russian or Military history, if they wanted to. This path could be more of a micro-historian’s path. For students who prefer the macro-history, longue duree approach there could be required computer science classes and broader topics that cover a long period of time and what was happening during that time period on a more global/international level. Perhaps there could be a 100 level historiography type class explaining the different approaches to history and then another capstone 400 level historiography class that brings together the micro/macro students to defend why they took the courses they took and why it is important. 
