My initial response when I opened Digital Humanities and began reading was one of skepticism. But as I continue to read, it began to make sense in much the same way skeptics of old came to accept the printing press. I can recall, in the early 1990’s, when purveyors of doom and gloom dismissed the digital age and scoffed that anything could improve (then) current methods of doing humanities. But it was those same people who, shortly thereafter, came to embrace libraries of information on CD-ROM. How amazed we were (it was a step up from 3 ½ inch floppy drives) that encyclopedic information was now available with great speed in contrast to the hours of research typically involved in such endeavors. Once the masses turned to the dark side and embraced these new repositories of information, questions remained of where this might take us. But few seemed to take the bull by the horns in the quest to figure out where we were to go from here. It appeared that most thought the future would be like the hover boards or flying cars from the Back to The Future series; if we just wait, somebody will make it happen. But alas, we still need roads. And now, with digital humanities, there is great promise. 

I’m not sure if Digital Humanities (DH) is the answer to post-modernism (or just what post-modernism is), but it is something we must embrace. It also provides a task for the humanities, specifically the historian, in the collection and processing of mass amounts of information. How do we organize it? How will it be amended or improved upon as real time up to date information is identified. DH introduces a philosophy of prototyping which really isn’t new. It is just new to the humanities. Admittedly, I’m resistant to putting work out in the open for all to see. I don’t like failure and am frightened of intellectual theft. But DH makes a point (page 25) that “The best core curricula-whether or not based on classical models-strive to create students, and thereby citizens who think with imagination, who manifest their thoughts as creative action, and whose analysis can lead to inventive, although hardly definitive, syntheses.” Perhaps laying it all out in the open leads to a better product and higher levels of scholarship. 

The “I hate change” person in me wants to dismiss DH as nothing but a fad. The progressive mentality that I am trying to embrace views DH as a method for doing history. When someone asks me what I will do with a history degree, perhaps I will have more to say than “Whatever I feel like doing with it!” There is a need for the curation, analysis, editing, and modeling of the information that is out there and that which is to come. How do we arrange it to make it accessible? How do we identify the garbage information that appears to be of no consequence but later is the key to all academic learning? And who is going to analyze everything? The corporate world, NGOs, and governmental agencies have come to accept the digitized world. Multi-disciplinary teams from the humanities and IT professionals are already working together to improve access to services and information. It may be a brave new world, but it isn’t scary.
