The Problem of Today:
Though we live in an age of massive proliferation of information as well as the internet to allow many people access to that information, this proliferation is largely unconstructive. For example, wikipedia, wikileaks, Snowden's leaks, and vaults of CIA documents does nothing for the average citizen. It is too difficult to get an accurate account of the world today when information, as in the CIA vault, lists millions of secret documents for the reader to comb through without any synthesis or readable compilations.

The Ideal that the History Manifesto brings forth:
What students of history and citizens need is an army of historians to comb through this vast data and to synthesize it into readable form so that citizens are equipped to be active member of democratic nations.

Here is a further problem, Our political system is a mere facade. There is no substance to our constitution. Freedom of speech means nothing in a society of mindless consumers, and sturctures have been in place and continue to be in place to disenfranchise large numbers of people and inhibit them from even having the possibility of speech. What does freedom of speech and information mean when the majority do not have the knowledge with which to speak? Our voices are apolitical and history-less, and this is the great and unforgiveable error of the History Manifesto. The book does not even begin to answer its own question concerning the use of history. True, the techniques it spells out are absolutely necessary in synthesizes vast amounts of data from long periods of time in order to deconstruct poisonous myths such as the idea that our species has a predestination for an extremely exploitative form of capitalism. The author writes of Malm and Hornborg who, after reviewing decades of micro-historical work, were "able to point the finder at a particular, small subset of western elite families and corporations, who they believe share the blame for the climate disruption." Perfect. That is exactly what history needs, to disrupt long uses of myth that continue to harm us and our environment so that we can then put in place new structures that are less harmful. However, back to the grand error of the book, it does not even attempt to convey how history can actually be used. The only way to use history is to first put in place new structures of government in which the majority actually play a part in its governing. If historian do the task of sythesizing a combination of micro-historical and longue duree history into readable compilations for the average citizen to read, who exactly is going to read them in the apolitical and ignorant climate of the age in which we live? The silent majority must first be given voices. As the book's opening call to arms states: How should historian speak truth to power? The authors should first tell me why the hell speaking truth to power matters in an apolitical society. Better to first grapple with the problem of how to get people to care.

That fundamental problem aside, I really enjoyed this book. It has given me a web of sources that I will use as guides for further study concerning myths of capitalism, the environment, apocalyptic diagnoses of the future, and the global effects of international governance organizations. It has also made me much more aware of my own need of learning how to access syntheses of long-term data in order to get a better understand of the world I live in. It will be a book I go back to many times in my own personal study of history.
