###Micro-History Is As Good As No History

Well, maybe not that extreme, but you get the point. I am reminded of the ongoing question presented in class: if all historians were to stop doing history today, what would happen (if anything). It seems that Guldi and Armitage would argue that in a way, historians did stop doing history. *By neglecting the larger picture, highly specialized historical writings are inapplicable to questions that history has the capability, and the duty, to answer.* Historians have essentially lost their jobs to economists, and until we start asking the bigger questions, we won’t be getting that job back. In condensed form, Guldi and Armitage spell out an unambiguous use for history, that by tracking the patterns and studying deep into the historical past, we can use history to understand our present and construct our future. This understanding of history is comforting, as it clearly defines what use history has in the world, and also discusses the effects of a world lacking in history, that being chronic short sighted-ness. 

###What’s A Cause, And How Do You Know If You’ve Found It?

What underlies Guldi and Armitage’s argument is the search for causes. We get the clear impression that history is a tool for the future, useful because it can identify the causes of future, or current, events. The problem with short histories is that the causes they uncover are not deep enough; the longue durée history is needed to properly understand our current and future situations. *But how far back is far enough?* Guldi and Armitage also speak against the all-encompassing theories that state that the domestication of plants and animals, or human genes and natural selection, are ultimately responsible for history and the future. They argue instead for an ambiguous middle, ‘long’ but not ‘short’.  We need to uncover these causes so that we can answer the bigger questions that are actually pertinent to humanity. Questions concerning the economic influence of the developments in shipbuilding techniques from 1450 to 1485 answer no questions of interest other than those of a specific historian, and shed no light on the future. Where does this leave the historians who are truly interested in the economic influence of the developments in shipbuilding techniques from 1450 to 1485? Are they not allowed to research this topic because there is no obvious contribution to the understanding of the future? Will we all get our historian license revoked unless what we study is in a position clarify the modern world?

###Macro-History Using Micro-History Methods

One problem still remains: how can one write a macro-history with out sacrificing too much detail. *The beauty in micro-histories is their laborious precision and commendable dedication to such a narrow topic.* Guldi and Armitage believe that macro-histories needn’t suffer from generalizations, and instead should use the tools of a micro-history, just on a wider scale, which apparently can be done through computer assistance. Sure, that sounds ideal, a macro-history with micro attention to detail. But once again, how far can we push historians to unreasonable limits? 
