#####The Main Points

I think one of the main points that Iggers wants us to realize is that **the history of a region will affect the way that region views history**. By breaking up the chapters according to region, he highlights these differences in the perception of history and time, while also touching upon some of the specific concepts that repeat across regions. Secondly, Iggers discusses the ways in which **different theories of historical study lend themselves to the study of particular time periods**. Take for example the Annales school in France and how it was best suited for studying the pre-modern world, as compared to the “Historical Social Science” movement in Germany which was best suited to study modern history. 

#####France-The French Annals

To begin with, Iggers discusses the concept of including myth, art, and folklore in historical studies. The French Annals school exemplifies this concept the best, using these artistic expressions to try and understand and express the subtle and difficult to decipher ways that people actually perceived and experienced their world. I really appreciated this kind of approach because it highlighted the importance of thought. Exploring history is exploring cultures, and how can this be done properly if we remain ignorant to the ways in which past peoples have understood and related to the world they lived in at that time. After reading Levi-Strauss’ Myth and Meaning, I find the French Annals school of thought even more compelling because it synthesizes a great deal of information into a meaningful understanding history. 

#####Germany-Classical History, Economic History, and Social History

Iggers devotes three Chapters to the history of German History, and although I did not find it as compelling as the French Annals school, it is still important enough to note. Iggers touches on Ranke, whom we have heard of before, and his dedication to the purity of historical facts, and who also inaugurated the professionalization of history. This, however, left little room for society and culture, which would be addressed by later movements in other regions. Germany later began to try and articulate and understand the individual characters of society, but was still less concerned with culture than other movements.  

#####Interpretations 

If Iggers is only attempting to provide a concise review of region specific historiographical movements throughout history, then he is doing a very good job of it. Any larger interpretation, though, I believe is left up to the reader, one of which I will elaborate upon here. While reading the chapter on “American Traditions of Social History”, it occurred to me that the differences in these methods of studying history can be summarized into this: **using old material to answer new questions**. Assuming historical facts exist, and that there is an objective reality in the past (and present for that matter) that can be accessed, then any new interpretations of history that come about over time are really just that, an interpretation. It's not so much that we discover anything new about the past, but rather any 'new' findings we come across are simply modern questions that we can ask of old material. This interpretation leaves me wondering, however, if these new questions we ask of history accurately reflect 'history' or 'modernity'. Perhaps there are two ways of interpreting history: understanding how the world actually was at any given moment ot time, or an act of reflecting on the past so as to better understnad the future. It is also possible that these two models happen simultaneously. 
