# Cockfights, Cultural Liturgies, and Participation 
When I started reading this article I was delighted by the straightforwardness of the language and unusual topic, but I have to admit I was a little confused. I am reading about cock fighting on the island of Bali in contemporary times for my historiography class. What is going on? This feeling continued as Geertz delved deeper into the nature of Balinese cock fighting. The information seemed like it’d provided great use at a cocktail party (who else knows as much as I do now about Balinese cock fighting) but little use in my understanding of history. When Geertz claimed that there was in fact something deeper going on in this bizarre practice, I knew that there must also be a sort of deep play in reading about this as well. 

For the people of Bali a cockfight is never just a cockfight, or rather it is just a cockfight and that’s the point. A cockfight is a sort of cultural liturgy that forms the villagers of this Indonesian into the types of people of the culture. A cockfight is the culmination of Balinese social relationships and masculine identity. How do the villagers know where they stand amidst the complex social systems of the island? They go to the cockfights. How do the villagers measure up their self-worth as a man? They go to the cockfights. It is tempting to seek to abstract from these strange cultural practices such as these cockfights to the more general concepts of masculinity and social rank; however, Geertz reverses this temptation claiming instead that these general concepts find their actualization in the real practice of the cockfights. 

How then do anthropologists gain access to the significance of these real events? To answer this question Geertz opens the article with his experience of alienation and embrace. Geertz takes careful time to recall that when he arrived on the island of Bali he knew that he was an outsider. There was no interaction between him and the Balinese people. He was there but he was not with them. However, this experience of exclusion would end with his story of embrace. Geertz is accepted by the Balinese, not through intellectual ability or social diplomacy, but through his own participation in this cultural liturgy. The Balinese accepts Geertz through his becoming one of them in running from the cops amidst and illegal cockfight. In this process, through participating in this Balinese ritual, Geertz is able to pic up on the nuanced meaning of the cockfight. 

So what does this mean for history? Well, I don’t think it’s good news. To understand the significance of the Balinese cockfight is to participate in it. To understand a culture is delve inside it. To understand history is to be historical, but we can’t really do that. Historical research is, in a way, like Geertz’s time in Bali before he ran from the police. We seek to understand a culture, a place, a time all from the outside, when in reality we can never fully understand the significance of historical events as the people who engaged in them. To know something is to participate in it. That can’t really be done for history. 
