	Going through the first part of this article while he was saying that geography does effect history I thought it was common sense, in a simplistic sense cultures for many years have been fighting over geographical territory, causing many historical events. A good example is the Berlin wall or commonly known as the iron curtain, a physical wall was built to keep two geographical areas apart for 27 years. These two areas so geographically close to each other but so effected by Fascist beliefs. Cultures effect the beliefs and values of the individuals in a certain geographical areas, and those values motivate the histories that are created around the world. Geographical areas are so separate, their histories are detailed and when two combine they create a unique history.
	Withers ideas of geography on history were very interesting, he gives the example of Aristotle’s specific geographical location, and how it let him study Plato, then in turn effecting how westerners see that historical event. Geography effects more then past events, Location effects how history is learned. We have spoke about this in class, and how our location in western culture has effected our knowledge of history. This is a geographical issue that Withers wants us to keep in mind. 
	“Distinguished less, then, by precise "definitions" and more by approaches or significant discourses, it is clear that place has a history, and not just in geography. What is less clear is how far this attention to place and its different emphases within geography is reflected within history as a discourse and within the humanities and the social sciences more generally (642-643).” This section of the article made me think of Winners “Do Artifacts have histories?” Is it the locations that have history? or is it the communities? what is it that makes history is something is a question that Withers takes a stab at, by saying it is a combination of both, and it should be historians studying what happens in geography and what effects it has on the communities. 
	The section on place where he says that “It would appear, then, that place is all around us but not consistently agreed upon (648),” was another section I found familiar. Defining certain commonly used terms has been a theme throughout this class. We tried to defined science, gender, facts, and many more. In this article Withers tries to define place, and I am very glad that he said that it is “not commonly agreed upon,” because in our class definitions and meaning seems to be something, in even our small group, we debate about. These terms are theorized in such complicated ways, that simple definitions have been pushed. Place, for Withers, incorporated more then just geographical location, it has metaphysical connection to the people, but location is still just location, it only acquires meaning when it is given to it by communities, and individuals. This is a concept I could agree with, location, just like objects, are only that; but when given meaning these objects are given history. Geography causes so much in history I do agree with Withers that historians need to focus some of their aim of its effects. 
