	I found it really interesting in chapter one that Iggers connects the practice of historiography to political practices. In this class we have spent a lot of time talking about what history is and we have attempted to find a guide to help us understand how we want to practice history. We have debated about theory, anthropology, location, facts, and so many small terms to uncover wether or not they are history, or even if they are worth studying. These views each one of us has defended in class are guided by a certain moral compass, and Iggers explains that is imbedded in our social standings, such as political practices, and location. The practice of studying history is effected by the situations the historians are surrounded by.

Evolution
He gives a timeline and analysis on the “evolution” of the practice we have talked about in class. In chapter one, he talks a lot about the issue of historicism and the effects that it has on the practice. This theory that history shapes social and cultural phenomena, is one that brought historiography from the 19th to the 20th century. It is such a simple concept but it changed the practice, and put more emphasis on the importance of history, but then it became a crisis. In Germany there was an effort to regulate and perfect the practice, sparking one of the questions we discuss a lot in class, is there a right or wrong way to work in our craft? This is the time when history was being compared too science, as a way to regulate it. It is a social phenomenon that shaped history. 

Social Context 
Throughout this first half Iggers gives us a history of historiography and in this timeline historicism played a major role in one of the changes in the practice, and  he seems to agree with this theory, but I question it. Is it history that shapes culture? or is it culture, that shapes the practice of history? I think it is a little of both, a person can not argue that history does not play any role in social and cultural phenomenon; Iggers gives many examples proving that this is true. The way we see history is influence by the author we read, the person writing has a lot of control over how history is interpreted, the craft shapes how history is read. One example in Iggers book was the section on myth. The historians that chose to make these tales history, changed the way culture respected them as well. Practice has just as much influence on history, as history has on culture. 

Professionalizing 
Iggers gave a great time line of the practice and how historical situations, and locations have changed the practice, so reading this article and thinking about other historians we have read like Carr and Bloch, I can see much more clear how their social connections have effected their writings and views on the theories in their books. In a larger context, Iggers wrote a history about the practice of history, but he really made it clear for me how much the practice, and views about the practice have changed throughout time, and what cultural things it took to become a respected practice.
