<h2>Digital Humanities: The Present and the Future</h2>
<p>On the surface, the digital humanities is a concept I can get behind … anything that takes us away from mindless cat pictures and listicles on botched celebrity plastic surgery. The authors in this book are 100 percent correct that culture has shifted toward the screen for information gathering efforts. </p>
<h4>However…</h4>
<p>I remain suspect over one key element thus far not fully addressed in the book: logistics. With the number and variety of technical skills required to produce content in these digital humanities, even a single project requires numerous people with different skill sets.</p>
<p>This book does refer to this concern:</p>
<blockquote>“One caveat is worth noting. The positive demand for expanded skill-sets could have profoundly negative effects on scholarship if it becomes the academic equivalent of a neo-liberal speedup in which ever more quantitative metrics are used to push ‘education workers’ into acquiring technological skills without commensurate pay, skills with they are then held accountable for, both within and outside of tenure tracks” (Pg 15).</blockquote>
<p>A pretty big caveat, if you ask me.<p>
<p>At a conference I attended last year, the luncheon’s keynote speaker made a statement that stuck with me. We can debate whether this is true; I still do. In paraphrase, he said multitasking is possible. You can do multiple things at the same time. Yet, you can only do one thing “with excellence,” meaning it takes complete focus on a single task in order to place full effort. Attempts to throw in additional tasks at once will inevitably require you’re your attention to be diverted, and your overall quality of work suffers as a result.<p>
<h4>My point</h4>
<p>The issue here is not simply being compensated enough for one’s work or maintaining tenure pursuits. The quality remains paramount. I am not saying it is impossible for one man or woman to produce great work on his own, yet I advocate specialization and collaboration. The more heads we can bring together on a project, the higher quality we can produce. Obviously the law of diminishing returns comes into play and we cannot have so many involved that the gears no longer function, but I think it is key to have people focused on specialized tasks in order to produce great work. There are simply too many moving parts when considering video production, audio, research, editing, etc. The team’s size will obviously be predicated on the project’s goals.</p>
<p>This collaborative notion comes into play elsewhere, too, such as curation. This book, as we have in class, discusses the sheer volume of content being produced today. How will future historians be able to delve into it? Technical experts are needed in order to code the archives while designers can make the content in a presentable format. </p>
<p>Video games provide the strongest example of collaboration. Take a look at how many people it takes to produce a “Call of Duty” or a “Super Mario Bros.” these days. Artists, coders, motion capture experts, testers…the list goes on. Even smaller independent developers need a team of specialize experts. Why should the digital humanities be any different?</p>
