I am conflicted on whether or not Clark’s novel qualifies as a suitable historiography text. 
<p><b>The good.</b></p>
<p>I feel that it fits well with our course curriculum because it adds a unique spin to our study of why we study history. Clark is able to capture the essence of historiography in a light that none of the other novels we have read have been able to do. She discusses history and its disciplines in not the most glamorous of lights but in a way that makes me think that it is currently undergoing a remodeling phase (and has been since recording history became a thing.) Clark uses past influences to show how history has veered in different directions and directly quotes many of history’s biggest critics. I enjoyed reading about the critiques because many of them I had never been exposed to before. Her novel has both enlightened me and confused me about history as a discipline. History as a narrative, as a timeline, as a science and mythology, Clark discusses it all.</p>
<b> The bad.</b>
<p> She lost me however at the end with her section on premodern text. Personally I felt she could have done a way better job at tieing together the surplus of loose ends in her novel. I say loose ends meaning her way of discussing the critiques and arguments mentioned throughout the text. I enjoyed them, but I kept waiting for a big point to be made that connected me with why she felt the need to use so many arguments. Instead the last section of her novel left me with a ton of knowledge about early Christian text. Perhaps I misunderstood her use of early religious text as premodern history text but regardless Clark did not leave me with a clear notion of where history is headed in the 21st century. </p>
