**History, Changing Over Time** 

Professor Iggers engages his readers on a whirlwind tour through the changing intellectual landscape of how History is done. The question that kept recurring to me as I read about each of the fallen theories of what drives human behavior, after all isn’t history primarily a function of recording human behaviors, and the causes for those behaviors over time, there are times in history which any of those theories may represent the most accurate means to exam the past, so why throw any of them out?

Using documentary evidence to build a narrative as the only means to write history does seem dogmatic and limiting in the nature of what gets reported. But it also does provide a methodology to crack open the window of the past through which a glimmer of the past can shine-through. This glimpse can stir the imagination of historians and give rise to a raft of questions regarding the stratification of society, economic participation and representation in the society, was the language structured, and therefore invisible to the members of the society, in such a way as to perpetuate an oppressed class. These are all valid questions and each can be used as a lens through which a part of the culture can be described.

**Size Matters**

After the post modern onslaught that left me feeling like a man standing in a bowl of Jello, what I sense emerging is a history that is begging to address smaller and smaller constituencies. With the fall of each framework History has taken a closer look at those segments and groups within a culture that were taken for granted and overlooked. With the rise of microhistory the size of history is shrinking and the pieces are more difficult to stitch together into a coherent whole. But like the diversity of ideas and beliefs that organically exist within any culture there must be many different types of glue the Historian can use to describe the culture or period being looked at. 
