**Iggers and postmodernism**

Iggers has quite a different approach to postmodernism in comparison to Evans.  However, Iggers seems to have a somewhat contemporary and liberal approach to history.  He mentions how useful it is to use the past as well as microhistories as a way to understand history. Throughout the book, Iggers mentions the social sciences, and although I appreciated the use of sociologists, I still wonder if Iggers thought there was a difference between the social sciences.  While reading, it seemed that much of his ideas were ones that we had discussed in class.  It was discussed that we need a combination of theories and ideas as a way to come up with the most *complete* history. This idea related directly to the recent books we have read, and quite frankly, Iggers could easily join our class discussions without distaste. His ideas on microhistories were interesting as well as convincing.

**Microhistories**

As is common for the book, Iggers gives a historical explanation when explaining the different aspects of history.  One particular part in the microhistory section that stood out was the idea of getting the *little peoples’* story.  This is an opposition of the *great men of history* idea.  By getting the stories of the common people, we are able to create a more complete and complex history.  These stories are much more interesting to read. When reading this, I thought back to our previous class and the discussion about literature.  Literature is much more interesting to read (usually) and also captures the spirit and culture of the time period.  After reflecting, I feel that Iggers would understand such literature as a microhistory, a way to add to the *history* we already know. 

After reading Iggers I wonder how some historians can look at one or two approaches to history. After being discussed in class that we need a multitude of works to work with, and now, basically, having Iggers agree, it seems very logical.  However, I also remember agreeing with Evans and his negative view on postmodernism, and I start to wonder if historians can ever agree.  Both sides are presenting rather logical information, while also presenting reasonable proof to disprove the opposing side.  Therefore, it seems natural that the discussions we have in class can never come to a finite solution. 

**MAIN POINT (for me)**

The last argument of Iggers I would like to note was in the last chapter of the book.  His quote “History continues to be a powerful means by which groups and persons define their identity” is a provocative summary of what he thinks history is.  What made this quote stand out what how truthful and logical is seemed.  After reflecting on our past class discussion and now reading all of Iggers, it seems rather rational that place and culture affect history.  Iggers never states that history can become objective, but rather, history can work to become objective within a certain culture.  His ideas of combining all materials and theories when look at history is, as Gabby would call it, refreshing. 
