To be quite frank, I really enjoyed and resonated with the first chapter, Walking in the City. Maybe because it was more poetic, but as I was reading, I kept envisioning my home town.  Every time stories where mentioned about a building, I would recall an old memory.  Now, not to get too sentimental on you, but this has been something that I have been doing lately, whenever I go home, as I walk the streets of my town.  Now, walking has always been my main mode of transportation, as downtown was less than a mile away, and I had been walking to since I was about ten.  Therefore, it may have been easier for me to connect with de Certeau. Nonetheless, his description and importance of buildings and places really affected me as I reflected upon my own life and, in particular, one specific place.  One main quote from the reading, which was conveniently underlined, was:

Memories tie us to that place…It is personal, not interesting to anyone else, but after all that’s what gives a neighborhood its character. 

This quote is something I highly agree with.  Now I’m sure I could go on for hours and bore you about how great Clear Lake, Iowa is, but really, it will only mean something to me, and those who lived in that town.  Even then, our memories and feelings will differ.  This is a completely radical idea to me, that a place can have so much meaning.  Yes, it seems obvious, but to actually think about the impact a certain place or space (since the people matter too!), has had on a person is outstanding.  For example, what impact has UNM had on all of us?  Of course this is different to every person, as everybody has different impressions and memories, but a space that substantial, and to some, UNM is not, should be explored more.  However, how does that affect historians? Well, frankly, everything always affects us, but it is very similar to what has been said before, someplace, or some space where somebody was influenced, is something that should be researched more to explain why there was such an impact. 

Lastly, I would like to look at something else discussed, which is the language of the place.  I find this intriguing as language has always played such an important role throughout history.  There is symbolism in language, but there is also symbolism in places.  One example give of this is the difference between map and route.  Although, today, it has a very profound difference, they once meant virtually the same thing.  However, I did find it very appropriate that language was mentioned, as places and spaces are described to have stories.  So, in any story, one must have a language to tell it.  For example, the architecture, layout, graffiti, and people, all help to tell the story of the place.  Thinking back on my hometown, I realize the history I see every time I walk downtown.  This is not necessarily a story that has been told to me, (as we only have one year of Iowa history, not five).  Instead, the story is told through the buildings themselves.  One can look around and see the evolvement of new buildings and structures.  However, this can be a history much more imaginative and romantic than reading from documents, but is important nonetheless.  
