#### My Four Thoughts...
 
  1. **This book made me question and think about history more than previous books**

  I continue to be indifferent about this book.  On one hand, I like some of the ideas that they introduce, such as using larger data, but I also dislike that as well.  Call me old-fashioned, but I don’t think having a larger set of historical data will solve all the historical questions or problems.  Instead, it will still be selective to the individual, and only certain individuals will find the information exciting.  I still stand by the idea that we don’t necessarily need to make history available to everybody.  Yes, it is a good concept, but I don’t see it appealing to non-history lovers, except when needing a quick way to finish a paper.

  2. **Causation – we can still do history without trying to find causation.**

  The book seemed to be very dramatic, especially against micro histories.  I took this very personally, as I think micro histories are extremely important, and they are the reason I find history so fascinating.  The book also seemed to focus a lot on causation.  Although I think causation can be important, I also don’t think it is necessary to history.  The beautiful thing about history is that people with completely different likes, dislikes, and personalities can all have a love for history because they are able to focus and “nerd-out” in a specific area. If the only point of history is to look at the bigger picture and figure out causation, I feel that there would be even less of a use for history as people claim now. Now, people can research the history or anything and everything, but if we now must limit that to only focus on past causations to “major” historical events, then there ultimately seems to only be one job of the historian.

  3.  **Part of my confusion with this book is the contradictoriness between micro and macro histories.**

  Lastly, the book also discusses macro histories. This section felt quite contradictory to me. They mention using micro technique for macro history. In addition, they seem to praise macro histories as the way of the future, while also bashing the use of micro histories.  I found this contradictory because, doesn’t a macro history become micro, when focusing great attention and detail to that specific event?  Therefore, wouldn’t that macro history become a micro history?  I think I understand what they are trying to get at, but I can’t quite wrap my head around it, because it doesn’t seem logistically possible to apply micro history research to macro histories. 

  4. **My actual feelings about this book….I'm not the books biggest fan**

  After writing this comment, I realize that I am no longer indifferent to this book.  I think the book has innovative ideas, but I don’t really care for the book.  It’s like a boss that I’ve experienced.  She thought she had great innovative ideas, but when actually put into action the plans fell apart.  Part of this is because she had never held the job that me and my coworkers had, and therefore did not understand how the logistics of the job worked. The biggest problem, is the fact that she never helped implement these "great" ideas.  Yes, the authors are historians,and I have no idea if they have tried to practice what they preach, but it seems that they are simply just telling us what to do, which I find hard to follow. However, I think the big disconnect between me and them is the way we look at and understand history.  I think we have different ideas of what we want history to look like, which is great, but the book and I just didn’t jive.  Because I am very stubborn with a narrow view of how people view history, I never really gave the book a chance as I couldn’t see their ideas actually working to the extent that they were hoping for. The book is confusing to what it wants historians to do, and frankly, as stated above, I must be too old fashioned to want to change the way history is done. 
