In chapter four, Marc Bloch looks at how history has been analyzed, and how we should analyze what has already been analyzed.  To me, it seemed that much of the chapter revolved around a history’s rhetoric, meaning one must look at not only what happened during a certain time period, but also how others had perceived an event in later years.  This would ultimately ask the question, is the event perceived differently by the people who experienced it then by the people researching the same event three hundred years later?  The obvious answer would be yes.  However, Bloch explains why there could be discrepancies and what historians must do when analyzing the past.  At one point, Bloch mentions how language has played an important role in how something is analyzed.  For example, different words have, in essence, the same meaning but are different depending on the time period.  This is extremely fascinating as it greatly affects how we as historians read documents.   It also affects the authenticity of certain documents, and can help historians determine if such documents were forged.  Then, say a document was forged, historians are then given the task to determine why it was forged, for what purpose, and what does it mean now.  Language plays a pivotal role in analyzing history as words have different meanings in different contexts.  In addition, the language in which a document is written is extremely important.  We as historians are limited if we only know one or maybe two languages.  I had a professor who told us to read a primary source in another language if possible, as history gets lost in translation. This is crucial as we could easily become vulnerable to another’s translations and interpretation.  In addition, the language looks at how we interpret certain documents.  When reading what someone wrote, it is important to understand if it was solely the individual’s perception of the events or if the thinking paralleled to that of the society’s, thus, giving us insight on how a person or society thought at a specific time.  In essence, it is important to understand the impact language has on historians in correspondence to deciphering historical documents and events. 

In Bloch’s last chapter, he discusses to some extent the causation of history.  In this chapter, he suggests that history is a science.  I had never given this much thought, although, now it seems obvious. As historians we must analyze every detail to determine why something happen, similar to a scientists. However, it seems historians have a much more elaborate job than others.  Scientists in a specific field may only look at one factor as a cause, while another field of science may look at another aspect as a reason.  Historians, however, combine and look at all the influences in order to determine causation, thus, becoming an in-depth investigator as to why and how something happened.  Again, this may seem obvious to some, but to myself it seems mind boggling as to how much deductive research and scientific reasoning goes into our historical practices. 
