For someone who makes it very clear that he is not a scientist or “scnientistic” in his views, Levi-Strauss spends an awful lot of time talking about how it is the answer to everything. I may have misunderstood, but it seems that Levi-Strauss believes intellectual thinking is different than and, in a way, inferior to scientific thinking and that scientific thinking will continue advancing and answering questions that were considered intellectual before. Even as a non-religious person, I find it difficult to envision the world without the “human” element (i.e. spirituality, the senses). Despite the fact that the senses are being reintegrated into the scientific discourse, they are still dismissed as animalistic traits that can be universally explained. To some, the world, life, is nothing but mathematical equations and scientific explanations. But is not the study of science a human construct too? Copernicus was as sure about geocentrism as we are about the scientific principles we know today, and as much as we do not want to admit it, it _could_ all be proven wrong later. Perhaps instead of talking down intellectualism, Levi-Strauss should have an intellectual conversation about the nature of science. It is also worth noting that he has a lot of faith in people’s scientific ability if science is to solve problems “exactly at the same pace” as new ones are developed. It is this sort of omniscient declarations that make me think of him as scientifically and philosophical wrong in his approach to this subject.
