My favorite part of these chapters was the idea of detachment from purposeful names. So, Often we name spaces we do it with hopes and dreams for what that space will become or be known for. Right? Well, sometimes the names make sense and are self-fulfilling “Old Town” as an example. Other times…Such as in Tucson where I am from there is a street called Miracle Mile. Pleasant enough name probably meant to be hopeful, but on one side of the street is a giant cemetery and small stretch of street is notoriously known as the street you go to for hookers and the No Tell Motel…It was clearly not the intentions of the people who named the street for it to be associated with death, prostitutes, and drugs. However, most people who have spent any amount of time in Tucson are aware of this common preconception of the street.

DeCerteau said that places are what is believable, memorable, and primitive. This idea, as far as history goes, I would agree with. When I think of the Midwest I think of the dust bowl. Just like when I think of Okinawa I think of WWII (and beer and magic but that is beside the point). Places really do get passed down by word of mouth or in written histories through time and we tend to have the same or similar senses of most places from what we are told/learn. I think that the chapters we read really emphasize that the importance of place to history is huge and should absolutely be taken into account. 

I decided that a place is always a space but a space is not always a place. Or that spaces can be places but the place identity can be lost and it can return to just a space. At least that is what I am leaning towards. The bridges made me think about this more. There have to be these transitional spaces that are not really a place. Or maybe they are, but I don’t think so. It makes me think of liminal states like the transition from unborn to born, but applying that concept to physical places. In a more simple term where does Albuquerque stop and Rio Rancho being? For Natives or the people who do zoning I’m sure there is some actual street definition. For me, the second I cross that river I consider it Rio Rancho. Wrong or right that is my sense of place. The idea of a places ending or beginning can be a limbo like area or a bridge. So, I think that the idea of place can really differ from person to person and I think that DeCerteau supplies us this idea in these chapters and while I think that place is important to history I think we need to look at the different ever-changing aspects of place. 
