Many students of history have experienced the rabid question pertaining to the benefit of the discipline. Marc Bloch and Eric Carr, in our previous readings, explained how there truly is a benefit to the study and application of history as both a science and an art. Richard Evans in In Defense of History examines how we study history, not necessarily why. In all three readings so far, I note the common theme; history is the search for truth. But, to quote Pilate, “What is truth?” When will we know when we have achieved truth? Evans provided great insight into how the discipline of history progressed over the years; a review of how we got here. Truth seeking can only be as good as the information available. This is the conundrum for historians, having enough information, valid information, to lead one to the truth. I’m still wavering on whether history is a science or an art; could it be something entirely different? For a science, I need to eliminate all bias and subjectivity. The historian should separate himself from making a moral judgment on the past; especially since we each draw from our own time period to make such a judgment. It is like an art in the sense that a historian must gather all manner of data and have it make sense. What happens when there is too much data? I can appreciate the citation of John Pemble of “…writing history was like drinking from an ocean and pissing a cupful” (19). The art is the story telling and the science is the research and data gathering. In a sense, history borrows from literature, the natural sciences, and other related disciplines. It draws a picture while testing the data for accuracy.

People look to historians for some sort of pattern, a suggestion of events to come. They shouldn’t. Historians can present what happened, but it is difficult to apply causality. In science, we look for cause and effect in studies with a human benefit in mind. With history there is no similar benefit; we can’t predict the future. As Evans states, historians can identify “patterns, trends, and structures in the human past” (32). People misinterpret this as an ability to predict using certain patterns or similarities in time. We should not confuse this as the benefit of history. Historians provide the truth in human nature from a certain perspective. Contrary to what most people believe, history does not repeat itself. The study of history is the study of things that have happened and how humans have perceived those incidents. But the historian must not make the moral judgment of events in the past; he or she should only present the evidence of what happened. The true danger lies in the presentation of the evidence, for the purpose of not making a moral judgment is to remain objective. Presentation’s danger is that one sees the events in his or her own time or context. It is an art to remain objective. 

I did my best to explain to my twelve year old son why I’m studying history. I felt at times that I was defending history. This was of course prompted by his question of what I’m reading. Wandering around the house with Evans’ In Defense of History, I tried to summarize his first two chapters. Comparing the job of the historian to a police detective, I explained that it is the job of the historian to gather evidence, summarize what it means, and draw an unbiased and objective conclusion. It is both a science and an art; history draws on academic research but it also must be presented so that others may digest it. And yes, I explained that history is about perspective and context. Thank you Richard Evans. 
