Comment-Evans 

I must admit, when I saw that we were again going to be arguing over whether history is a science, an art, a craft, or something in between I was slightly put off. “Why do we have to know? Can’t we just do it?!” I thought. However, through reading Evans’ In Defense of History, specifically his introductory chapter and the chapter on the history of history, my interest was peaked. In his introduction Evans explains the current battle that historians face in remaining relevant in world that has shifted from a modernist conception of historical objectivity to a post-modern, post-structural conception of historical sources. Contemporary historians fluctuate between two poles. On the one hand, a group of would-be-historians see the criticisms and problems raised by post-structural literary theory and post-modern philosophy and throw in the towel on the whole historical project. If all we can get from a text is our own reactions then how/why can we do history? The opposite extreme is found in those historians who stick their heads in the sand and choose to ignore and dismiss the problems raised by these disciplines. Historians instead simply carry on under the same suppositions concerning the nature of a text and our relation to it. The problem in this approach lies in the possibility for history as a discipline to become irrelevant to a changing intellectual world. As our late modern world is transformed into a post-modern one, the disciplines which fail conform to the rules of the new climate will be abandoned. Evans states that it is unlikely that historians will give a defense of their craft that will satisfy philosophers and philosophers will never produce a theory that is practical to infiltrate history as discipline; however, I think this task is more necessary now than ever because history and philosophy are more closely related than either realizes (or would like to admit). 
Evans illustrates this point in his history of history. History has always been motivated by particular philosophical atmospheres which shape the discipline. Starting with the philosophical-theological position of the middle ages which sees God as the agent involved in history, moving through the Enlightenment which switches historical agency to rational beings, and reacting against this thought in the Romantic histories which rely on critiques of cold rationalism, history has relied heavily on the philosophical positions of the historian. The current debate surrounding whether history is a science or an art can be traced back to the British empiricist position of the early modern era and the positivist tradition of the late nineteenth century, in which every non-scientific was unworthy of attention. Historians, reacting to the philosophical climate of their time, sought to qualify history as a science in order to remain faithful in an empiricist world. However, as the positivist tradition waned and the late twentieth century gave rise to a questioning of traditional notions of objectivity and empiricism, what was once positive for the field (aligning with the popular philosophical position of empiricism) has turned into a negative. Now it back to the drawing boards, so to speak, for the historian. As a new philosophical atmosphere emerges it is necessary that a new form of historians emerge who are capable of navigating the philosophical and literary positions shaping our post-modern world. 
