I found Evans to be easier to read than Bloch and Carr. I understood the majority of his references to be useful in expressing his opinion on the theories of history. A few points that stood out to me before reading very far into the novel were his seemingly up-to-date references in the introduction and his pointing out of the alterations made for American usage.  Evans published the American version of this book in 1999 and I understood his theories to be very modernized or at least more than that of Bloch and Carr. In his opening he mentions how he has changed the novel to fit the “American” point of view and make it easier for Americans to read or more relevant. Perhaps it is just the hot-blooded American in me but I took his editing to be somewhat concerning. Which references did he dub less relevant and how did they play into his arguments where they could be so easily changed? I would be interested to see the differences, but I digress. This changing in edition reminded me of our earlier in-class conversation regarding the different written forms of historic records. He mentions several times how arguments can be misunderstood based off of language and rhetoric, and I couldn’t help but think this as his possible reason behind altering his work. Calling attention to his references of the historian Ranke, he makes a remark concerning Ranke’s opinion on judging the past. He quotes “to such high offices this work does not aspire: it wants only to show what actually happened.” He then points out how the last phrase of this quotation underwent much scrutiny and misunderstanding due to the differences in German and English interpretations. This, I thought, was an excellent example of how history might be altered due to language.  Bloch made a special note of this in the last section of his own work but I felt that Evans covered it with a better and more simplified example. Evans then calls attention to the trend of postmodernism in history. He refers to historians as falling victim to the trend of postmodern tactics, postmodernism meaning the word critics of history use when describing something that has been stated but is still up for debate. This served as his introduction to the debate of the theory of history rather than the science. The training historians receive he notes, is that much like a scientist: “…in order to understand a source, historians have to ask how it came into existence, what purposes it served those who created it, and how the proceeded to bring it into being.” However, history does not have a specialized language like science does. I liked how he related history to science in this first half but did not out-right call it a concrete science. All criticisms are taken into account actually, and it was not apparent to me that he favored one more than the other. To name a few: Historians are not made, they are instead born, Only historians have the right to write history, History cannot be written without the help of philosophy, theology, science, etc. I found it interesting that Evans even opened up history to linguistic and literary analysis. The records of history are so diverse and I feel that Evans did an excellent job of illustrating those differences.
