A quote that caught my attention was “The point of history is to study historians, not to study the past.”  For the most part, this goes against everything I was taught about history.  When learning about World War Two, my teacher did not even mention the historian and the biases he or she may produce.  The same thing held true when studying the American Civil War, and other events in history. But, how can we only study history by the historians?  And, doesn’t this go against what Evans had mentioned earlier about not being objective and only relaying the facts of what happened during the event?  Nonetheless, I find myself intrigued by this quote.  Evans goes on to say that everybody’s interpretation of a reading is different than the next.  This is not a new concept at all, except when Evans stresses the importance of acknowledging that history is interpreted by the historian, and it is the historian that is under critique.  Therefore, how can we know what the truth of history is?  This goes back to the question that was mentioned in class where we gave a percentage of how factual we think history is based on the documents we have.  I gave a relatively high percentage, thinking about a specific even being analyzed by numerous historians without much debate.  However, after reading Evans’ section on the facts of the historian, I am willing to question my knowledge of history and change my number to a very low percent.  Say, only fifteen. The quote also makes me wonder about reading primary documents.  For example, if I decided to read and interpret a dairy of some famous historical figure instead of reading somebody else’s interpretation, would I have to analyze myself or would simply reading a firsthand account be enough?  Although, I do find it somewhat important to understand the point of view of the historian that we are reading, I also find it an impossible challenge to completely understand where they are coming from and determining what historian is correct.  That is to say that there is a correct historian.  That specific quote, along with earlier arguments made by Evans, suggests that history stops.  At least my interpretation of what I read made it seem that way (and according to Evans’ my interpretation is completely legitimate). He suggests that history comes from the documents and texts left, however, there is a point where there is no written documents.  Therefore, do we rely on other artifacts such as archeological digs or is the historian’s job simply done, when there are no longer any texts?  Lastly, the quote, and other parts of Evans’ arguments, relate to Carr’s idea on nomenclature.  If, according to the quote, we are supposed to study the historian, do we look at how the historian interpreted certain words, or how they words were interpreted during the time that the document was written. Does this also mean that when comparing historians, we should also compare the documents they used?  For example, if one historian uses diaries of a servant, while one uses speeches of a noblemen, and both give the same conclusion, is one historian more credible than the other because of the documents used?  I feel, that Evans’ believes both, making him very confusing to me.  I feel his writing is often back and forth, and I am unable to figure out what he wants us to believe. 
