**First Impressions**

Contrary to almost everyone in class, when I purchased Digital Humanities I was excited about the look of the book. I had never really thought of incorporating the use of digital media as a text in and of itself in historical research. I am not talking about using the internet to search for sources because as a 21st century student that is obviously the easiest way to get information. What I mean is that I never thought things like Facebook updates and Twitter advertisements would ever be a serious part of history.

**Likes/Dislikes**

The parts about the book that I liked the most were the case studies. Although the text was annoyingly small, I thought the processes the authors talked about were interesting especially regarding how they were going to get the word out about their studies. Some other ideas that I liked from the book were how the authors explained that by digitizing texts allowed for more access by more people, and that certain documents were not reserved for elite educators, researchers or professional historians. By digitizing humanities academia, it allows the discourse to be a little more inclusive, although still somewhat elitist if one does not have internet/World Wide Web access. The talk about design and how readers trust or distrust based solely on the set-up of a text was interesting. I think I was hoping the book would be more helpful when it was time to do our video projects but I didn’t really reference it at all.

Some things I did not like about the book was that it was pretty general since it was talking about all of humanities and I was hoping for more information about just digitized *history*. As someone stated in class, I did not like the big bold lettering placed randomly throughout the book because I definitely found myself wanting to ignore the plain text and skip through and only focus on the big and bold words. Finally, I thought the book was pretty repetitive. It ‘talked’ a lot but ‘said’ little. 
