I have a love-hate relationship with the micro-history. For so many years as an eternal student of history, I’ve understood the discipline to be of the longue duree. And that is due to how history was framed in my early years. Wanting little to do with minor conflicts that few care about, I focused my studies on courses that taught what I considered to be traditional history. In reading the History Manifesto, the authors Jo Guldi and David Armitage had me at hello. By Chapter 3, H.M. was becoming my favorite of the books we read all semester. But leading up to it, the authors provide analysis on the rise of the short history, the story of the little guy. Micro-histories certainly have their place, but they force one to question the purpose behind historical studies. How is a cat massacre important to the study of history? This could be due to my own conception of what history is for, what is the use? We go back to Bloch’s question, what is the use of history when we explain to people why we chose the discipline. 

I always considered history to be a part of political and social analysis; it contributes to society in the same way political science or sociology do. But history also provides context; it gives the setting and background information. The longue duree gives policy makers an idea of what has failed, what has succeeded, and, based on the past, where we could be headed. I agree with the authors that policymakers have relied, in recent past, on quantifiable data from the likes of economists and sociologists. However, the use of history is easily explained when one considers the possibilities of analysis and critical thought. But, I do realize there is trouble in this neck of the woods. Policy analysis involves explaining causality to events in the past which is something historians with an objective eye have shied away from. But it can be done, I think, to the best of our abilities. I know, in this course, we have studied perspective and objectivity to the point of exhaustion. However, I don’t think we should worry too much about it. How we view history is framed by our own eyes and our own environment; this is true. But what does that matter? Why can’t we just describe what happened using the context of the time period and not worry about the people we are leaving out or the events that are important to few?

I see the use of micro-history in a similar way to the longue duree; allow me to explain. History should become like the study of economics, and it has in an informal way. With economics, there is a micro and macro of the discipline. The macro allows us to see trends over long periods of time aiding us in policy decisions, while the micro explains, at a deeper level, how each up and down of the trend took place. History is the same way; using the macro approach, I can explain in a general sense what happened in the United States Civil War, but I can’t tell you about the individual stories that are the driving force behind the macro. The micro drills down like a GIS; on a map we may see the big picture, but below there are multiple layers of information that could also impact policy. The micro gives us a better understanding of the why. 

