Initially the authors set up history of the seen value of humanities, how it came into practice and how it was devalued through out the years. There seems to be a sense of urgency in the first ten pages, they are defending the practice, like it is under threat. They write on page seven that the humanities remain more necessary then ever “we have to go beyond mere bromides celebrating the inherent value of cultural tradition or the inherent value of a familiarity with certain achievements from the cultural-historical past.” Then blames students and faculty  for not adequately embracing humanistic ideals and if it continues, will diminish practice and hinder the educational practice in universities. This vocabulary is very drastic to me the way they sounded was like saying that the practice will die all together and studies in the humanities will be gone very soon. I don't think this is the case at all, I think the practice does need to be defended against the scientists and others “checking” our work, but I don't feel the practice is be gone like the authors foresee. We have had many comments about defending history, and improving the future of the practice, but no one predicted a future without humanities. So what are we defending? and if we don't defend our practice will it loose standing in a university sense? 

The future of the practice in their eyes is a digitized one with charts, numbers, and unity. With the age of smart phones and technology we do have a lot more access to peoples personal lives that is, as we have talked about, impossible to research and read all of it. Computer softwares can solve this issue, and in this portion of their argument I do agree with I think technology is an amazing tool that historians and other humanitarians should utilize. Like they said it will help with organization, and it will help spread knowledge not only to other scholars but to the masses. They want to categorize and research information in a very mathematical and mechanical ways, that could possibly loose the humanistic element in humanities. In the last chapter they talk about the ethical issues of following and tracking people lives on their phones, but I think there are more ethical issues at hand that they ignore. The practices we have adapted to, the art in doing history, the historian could be lost in all the animated archiving. Computers should change the practice, but not take it over. 
