It was interesting to see my classmates’ strong reactions to the book’s format. I actually read it online (how pertinent), and did not notice anything out of the ordinary except the chapter introduction pages having giant text all over them. This book, thus far, has a lot of information. But none of it really blew my mind. Maybe it is because I am a “media native” (or whatever the exact term was), but none of this seemed far-fetched at all. It seems natural that technology be integrated into the humanities and vice versa. Innovation leads to more innovation and the ability to tread new ground and make even more discoveries.

I think this book was written with a very positive attitude and excitement toward technological advancements in academia. I agree with Burdick, et al that Digital Humanities has expanded the way in which the humanities can be expressed and taught. However, I am more curious to know the origin of this term “Digital Humanities” especially as a separate entity than what we know as the regular humanities. I am having trouble differentiating the two, because what I have been exposed to so far in my academic career, including the noticeably increasing trend of the use of media and technology as a teaching tool, seems simply like “the humanities.” 

Furthermore, I think this book is written very well. It actually seems like more of a sales pitch, which could be the “positive” attitude I described earlier. But I am not so sure that Digital Humanities can be credited for a lot of what the authors are trying to argue. For example, the authors argue that Digital Humanities are bringing back oratory through podcasts, YouTube, and audiobooks and that before these mediums for voice and gesture, oratory took the backseat to print. I am just not so easily convinced that this is true. A lot of speakers on YouTube are actually speaking to a live audience. On-stage performances have been popular for centuries. Yes, there is certainly more access with the advent of recording devices, but is Digital Humanities to thank for this? (That was a terrible argument but I hope you get what I mean! I just can’t explain it well.)
