**formatting** 

The first thing I want to point out is the format of the book. It seemed to be a more “modern” text book. However, as I was reading and noticed the words highlighted it black it made me wonder what that means for the reader.  When studying for a test out of a textbook, I find the bolded terms to study from.  Why? Because they are the most important, or at least what the book want to point out.  But isn’t that what we as historians should shy away from?  This class is designed where we each write our own comment about something we find interesting, or give a summary on something that stood out to us for a particular reason, allowing for us to have our own interpretations.  As I was reading the book, I wondered if formatting text a certain ways (like bolded or highlighted words or phrases), was an easy way out. Yes, I like standard highlighting with bullet points and bolded words in a textbook, but I also don’t use that text book for in-depth knowledge. Instead, I use it as a starting point to start my research with other books or texts, but having all texts formatted this way stops us from fully reading and analyzing the text on our own.  This again goes into our discussion about objectivity, where we are being told what is most important in that work, instead of trying to figure it out ourselves, thus, potentially leaving out important information for our own use.  Throughout our class discussions, I have realized that complete neutrality can never be reached, but should we let others “important” words influence us? I believe we should take what we want from the readings, potentially creating a different interpretation than what the author wanted. This leads into the idea of the computer synthesizing information.

**use of technology** 

 If computers are able to analyze information and give us a better or faster “result” than a human, then will we ever actually need historians?  I use my computer and other technology every day, but the idea of a robot telling me what actually happened scares me.  Not to get all on conspiracy theories here, but shouldn’t have computers to help us, not actually do our own work? I firmly believe in the capacity of the human mind, and the idea that I won’t have to think for myself, is not only frightening, but also stops the fun of doing my own research.  I like technology, but I am also very wary of it. In addition, I can’t help but think there will be a cultural lag, allowing for potential older historians to be discriminated against because of their lack of use of technology.  In addition, this idea is not inclusive to everybody.  Not all cultures and religions have access to this sort of technology, nor want it, so how are they going to compete in a world where computers and technology have the advantage?  

**Conclusion**

Essentially, formatting text seems to always be moving forward.  Yes, I read things differently on the computer screen versus a book.  However, I may be old fashioned in thinking that moving forward doesn’t always mean easier.  I don’t believe we will ever have all of the information regarding history, so why do we have to put every single thing into a computer.  I like the idea that there is more access to a wider range of texts, but I don’t think it’s always necessary to have someone else do the work.  I consider myself old fashioned, where I like handwritten letters and phone calls over emails and text.  The same is true for academic work.  I like reading material in hard copy than online.  It allows me to highlight and make comments in the margins, which is easier for me (both mentally and on the eyes), then scrolling on a computer screen. Even though you can highlight, and copy and paste on the computer.  It is much easier for me to find, and ultimately understand the material, when I can physically hold the text. 
