In the second half of Iggers book he talks a lot about the shifting focuses of history. Microhistory is a subject that he spends a great deal of time. In the beginning of the semester I talked about the way that I think focuses shift as we change as a people or as a culture. I talked about how now we are so much more focused on the environment and the individual than we were in the past. This idea of individualization or specialization is, in my opinion, seen in all areas of study not just history. We are more interested in the details now than we were. Perhaps it is not that we weren’t interested in the past but that before modern technology focusing on smaller details that contribute to the “macrohistory” was harder to keep track of. Now that we have the ability to specialize and do microhistories it makes sense that we do. In class Monday we talked about the lost emails of **Hilary Clinton** and why should we care? I think people care because it limits the ability to do that microhistory completely. Now that we have the power to retain every bit of information we want to. Do we need to? Will it help us? Who knows but we can so why not? 

So, **I like Iggers**. I like the way he writes I think he is pretty clear for the most part. I thought his definition for postmodern theory about historiography was really interesting. He basically said historical writing is not actually the past. I believe this was in the section about language. I like that Iggers really tells us what he thinks postmodernism is. I don’t think anyone else that we have read spelled it out like that. Everyone else gave us more of a long-winded critiques and this was very straightforward.

I found the sections that talked about Geertz and his approaches the most interesting. Being an Archaeology major, as I am sure you all know by now, I really think that anthropology and history go hand in hand. The idea and use of thick description makes total sense to me. However, I don’t think I agreed with Iggers and his opinion of the contradiction with thick description that the studied is totally different from the observer? From what I know about ethnographic observations is that you try not to judge them by your standards but there is not this understanding that you are different. I think that feels much more like a laboratory experiment. And that is not what I think Geertz did.  While Geertz may have been studying the people he was working with he was also participating in their culture. If we can use empirical research possibly in combination with theory to help us understand the past I think that is great. 

**The last thing I want to say is that I think the idea of the loss of the “Grand Narrative” is awesome. After being in college for sometime now and learning a lot more about history I think grand narratives are crap and often misleading.**
