#The Haunting of the Boogeyman

Iggers frames the second half of his book around an overview of historical theory during the Cold War and up to the present. He examines both the move toward micro-histories, which abandon the all-encompassing naivety of a historical metanarrative, and the turn towards language as the primary object of historical analysis. Both movements in late twentieth-century historiography have been motivated by twentieth-century continental philosophy, or, as it should be called in the historical field, the Boogeyman. 

Iggers’ views postmodern philosophy differently than how we have encountered it in the past. Evans for example, truly did see postmodernism as the Boogeyman, waiting to end all further historical inquiry. Iggers instead, seeks to understand this move out of Enlightened modernity as see what its ramifications are for history. The chapter that I found most telling in this latter half was the chapter on the linguistic turn. Language and linguistic analysis has been the major force behind late twentieth-century philosophy and Iggers does well to show how different historians have appropriated this method of linguistic analysis. Iggers also understood the threat that this linguistic turn posed to historical scholarship. The chapter title asks the question, “Does this turn to language spell the end of a historical discipline?” Yet Iggers seems to believe it doesn’t and history can cope. Iggers doesn’t see postmodernism as the threatening Boogeyman we have come across before; however, he’s far from embracing it whole-heartedly. 

Which brings me to my critique of Iggers: He doesn’t say enough. He dismisses postmodernism’s most striking critiques with two measly paragraphs at the end of the language chapter. Claiming that Derridean philosophy cannot be applied to history because there is obviously a reality behind the text, which he sees as intuitive. However, the point of postmodernism has always been to get us to rethink that which we understand to be intuitive, to understand that are intuitions are rooted in a particular philosophical like-mindedness inherited from the Enlightenment. We can’t dismiss postmodernism because they fly in the face of our intuitions. Maybe our intuitions are wrong. 

In the final chapter, Iggers move towards a position that I think is helpful. It is hard to be a postmodernist in the everydayness of life. That amount of skepticism and relativism would drive us insane. And even though the Enlightenment has left us inheritors of some pretty bad junk there have also been some good things we can benefit from. This is how history should proceed. We continue to try to remember and explain what we know, we do social history and political history, we examine texts, yet we also remember that looming behind us are these heavy critiques of our discipline. The Canadian philosopher Charles Taylor refers to this as the “haunting of the secular,” in which we continue our modern enterprises with the ghosts of postmodernism looming in the background, reminding us of our limitations. As historians we must deal with the haunting of the history departments; however, this haunting should serve to keep us humble and always willing to accept new methods.    
