  Iggers’ book is broken into three parts: corresponding to the major periods of Western historiography. The second part of the book describes the desire to render history more scientific, incorporating social and economic developments and placing them within the actual frameworks, such as Marxism. Part Three describes the questions raised by postmodernist thinkers, many of whom went so far as to conclude that history has no more correspondence to an objective reality than does literary fiction. What stuck out to me was how the many Postmodernists rejecting the micro history approach and sited the failure of previous approaches to history to bring about a truthful and more objective viewpoint. They also theorized that objective history is impossible because of the pre-conceived notions and inevitable subjectivities of historians. (Which is exactly what we leanred a few weeks before spring break: that history is constantly changing and every new set of historians in the future bashes the previous set of historians methods.) Iggers contends that fundamental assumptions have remained intact even if they are now qualified.

  The post modernists suggest history should be considered nothing more than theory along the same lines as Philosophy or Psychology. Issues of Reality of Knowledge, Presumptions and Linguistic Theory are sited as evidence for these arguments.

  In my personal opinion, maybe that view of history is true, for now. Until we can discover or find a way to manipulate time and view it on a spectrum (as einstein suggested) we cannot get a 100% undeniable truth. Energy is constant. In the universe we cannot destroy or create anymore energy than there already is (in theory). Thus there has to be some material form of a historical record, somewhere out there.
