  I think reading Clark’s book toward the end of the semester is the best way to fit it into the course. She references almost all of the scholars’ work we had previously read and diving into History, Theory, Text without having somewhat of a background in Scott, de Certeau, Levi-Strauss and Geertz would have definitely left me not comprehending as much as I did while reading it. Out of all of the chapters in the book I think the one that made me think the most about how historians approach how to do history was Chapter 7, Texts and Contexts. I had always been a pretty firm believer that context is key when reading a primary or secondary source, and having this mindset, I found myself agreeing with Skinner and Pocock’s contextualism approaches. I also felt that knowing where an author is coming from or why an author is writing what they are writing is essential when reading their work. Since this chapter is toward the end of Clark’s book I already knew to expect a critique of this approach. Sure enough, Clark followed up with a section on LaCapra and how his problem with contextualism is that readers do not need to know the context of the author’s approach but can better learn by asking themselves what the author did not think about while writing. Not knowing the context of a written text then creates a more inquisitive approach which could then, potentially, lead to finding out more about a subject. One sentence under the Jacques Derrida section really stood out to me and made me rethink, and pretty much change my mind, that a reader needed to always know the context of the text they are reading. The sentence was, “To believe that a reader must locate one particular and exclusive context in order to understand a text is itself a “metaphysical assumption.”” If I understand this correctly, I think what contextualism critics are arguing is that requiring a context to be known to read a text may stray from objective learning. 
	
	Overall, I really did like Clark’s book and felt like it fits well within our course. She discusses many scholars and their ideologies and how they are all different from one another. Being able to learn about all of these historians and scholars in one book makes for an easier understanding of academic critiques. Whether history is intellectually or narratively approached, I think both still serve important roles for future historians and readers. I think with all of the different critiques of historians, anthropologists, philosophers, social scientists and so on, there is more pressure on scholars today than there had been before. What I am trying to say is stated nicely in the last chapter of the book: “…There is no natural object ‘history.’ Ancient historians, unlike our contemporaries, wrote for nonprofessional audiences for whom epic poetry was the only other narrative genre, thus they were immune both to Rankean concerns and to modern commands for ‘professionalism.’ As R.G. Colingwood put it, “the historian was only the autobiographer of his generation and autobiography is not a profession.””
