As an undergrad, I don’t really refer to myself as a ‘historian’ yet. I have not done extensive research or spent an outrageous amount of time studying a certain topic. Although I do not consider myself a historian now, I do have my own opinions and ideas of how I would approach doing history in the future. That being said, I find it overwhelming that there are so many approaches, counter approaches and criticisms of how to do history. One of the scholars in the 4th and 5th chapter of Clark’s book that stood out to me the most was probably Paul Veyne because of his criticisms of historians. I found his claims about history to be interesting because everything that he criticizes is probably how I would approach history as a future historian. His claim that the only difference between what novelists write and what historians write is that events that historians write about are “true.” Clark also writes that Veyne claims that some historians use invented subjects to study history and that “historians cannot even pride themselves on being exemplary humanists…they can claim nothing more distinctive for history than that it concerns “the interesting.”” 
As I am learning more about different ways to do history in this class, I keep finding myself favoring a microhistorical approach. I am interested in the “little people’s” stories, the individual who never thought they would be looked at as a part of history. I have always favored a less politicized approach to history, but just never knew it had a name or a philosophy behind it. I do think having some sort of basis in political history is essential when studying or researching a subject, but I prefer knowing what people felt like, or thought about, or believed in during a certain time period. What piques my interest in history is what a historical critic like Veyne would laugh off as a hobby. Perhaps this is why he stood out to me out of all of the other scholars and historians in these chapters. I suppose I saw his claims as a challenge to my interests and what I deem important. In the future, when I hope to find my own way of doing history, I know I will probably approach it with a microhistorical mindset and a Geertzian “Thick description” perspective because that is what I think is important. I am not going to go out looking for outlandish stories to tell, because I, like most other historians, just want to get as close to a truth as possible. Whether a historian approaches a history from a political standpoint or a human standpoint, both are invaluable. Both approaches need the other to create a bigger, clearer picture. 
