In reading History, Theory, Text by Elizabeth Clark, I’m left with the question of just why I study history. Clark bounces here and there describing structuralism and post-structuralism, yet I don’t believe she quite explained what they are. And apparently, as a historian, I will never be able to perfect context, so why even try? And what exactly is a text? Just when I have come to accept that we (students of history) will never achieve objectivity, Clark presents the notion that we will never agree on what a text really is. As stated, Clark cited different historical theories and provided examples of practitioners. Many of these theorists have reared their ugly heads and have, on their own, caused me great consternation. I thought I knew why I studied history; I want to learn about the past. I seek the truth. My goal has been to put the past in its own context so that a present day understanding is possible. After reading Clark, Carr, Evans, Iggers, Levi-Strauss, et al… I don’t think my goal is achievable. My perception of the past’s context is affected by my present. And that is just me. The reader of my context is impacted by his or her own present creating, in the end, too many moving parts. How do I focus on truth when the lens I look through is clouded by my experiences, politics, and limited knowledge? Knowing that, what am I to do? 

While Clark provides a summary of the historical theories we have experienced thus far, she provides a context that makes sense to me. My interest in New Testament writing and early Christian hermeneutics gave me a better understanding of theory and its usefulness. It began to make sense to me; narrative, text, context, structuralism, post-structuralism, and truth. As students of history, we strive to understand and explain just what happened. As truth seekers lacking total objectivity we argue over context, interpretation, and can’t even decide on what a text is. I see it as a check on historians, and improvement to our system of truth seeking. Forever will we scrutinize the work of the historian from the different theories which encourages the use of evidence. Clark presents this challenge in the final chapter in the context of Christianity. Not only do we have present issues with interpretation, but in the immediate, early Christian philosophy was framed by context and perception. 

After reading the first three chapters of Clark, I was in a haze wondering if I should just change my own major to something simple. As I continued to read the subsequent chapters, and considering everything we have read in the class, isn’t history everything? History takes from other disciplines; anthropology, literature, sociology, political science, and others. Students of history include natural and social sciences in their research; it is all inclusive. Some of the historical theories seem foreign to me; something like a language that few in the world speak. Clark gave us something that the other writers haven’t, criticism. If such learned and experienced historians can’t agree on just about anything, then there is hope. I don’t have to agree with post-modernism; I don’t even know what that is. 
