What began as one of my favorite readings thus far for the semester quickly turned into a struggle as I tried my best to comprehend and synthesize such an outpouring of information. I couldn’t help but be reminded of David’s comment the other day, that this book reads like it was written by a computer, and at many points it really did fell like this was the case. It was a push to make it to the last chapter, where I hoped there might be a bit more interesting material to really ponder over (as opposed to a review and retelling of other historians and historical movements), but was rather disappointed. Some of the chapter still consisted of reviewing other historical works, and to be quite honest, although I appreciated her application of historiographical methods to the topic of premodern texts, I was nonetheless left questioning the point of the entire book. I think that this ever-allusive chapter 8 (mentioned numerous times throughout the book, but not actually addressed until…you guessed it…chapter 8) was Clark’s attempt at tying together all the different historiographical methods discussed through the book into one chapter. Sadly, this method or organization left me feeling confused with a bit of a headache. I would have rather she discussed these examples throughout the book, which would have better solidified my understanding of the topics, instead of saving it all for one big fiesta at the end.  Although Clark presented her material in a precise manner within the first seven chapters, the movements and historians began to blend into one pool of historiographical sludge because, for me at least, the differences between the movements and historians were passed through too quickly, and Clark did not seem to elaborate on their theories enough for me to get any clear grasp of what made them different from all the others.  Perhaps this is no fault of hers, and rather has to do with the subject material, because I am beginning to see that the boundaries between historiographical practices are rather arbitrary. 

Despite all my griping, however, the book did have a lot of valuable information. For one, I appreciated that she devoted such a large amount of space to some of the historiographical movements that have received less attention in other books, such at the French Annals school, and also the Intellectual History movement. I thought it was well planned to have us read this book right after Iggers, because the two compliment each other very well, and taken together provide a solid base for understanding historiography.  In addition, this book really helped contribute to my understanding of historical texts, and what should be considered as such, more so than, say, Evans. Taken together, I would say that the readings selected for this class have all been beneficial. I think Clark mentions all of the authors we have read thus far in *History, Theory, Text*, and without that kind of a background I think this book would have been entirely beyond my understanding. In this way also, Clark ties together much of what we have been discussing into one narrative (I’m afraid to use this word because I’m not entirely sure what it means anymore). Although it may have been difficult at times, it was worth it in the end. 
