#The Need For Chapter Nine…

There has to be more! I anticipated Clark’s formulation of a historical theory that took seriously the criticism of postmodernist philosophers and literary theorists throughout the whole book. Chapter eight neared on a mythical concept as I read closer and closer to it. Clark did such a good job of systematically laying out the history of historiographical theory from the naïve objectivity of Ranke to the critiques of deconstruction in Derrida. It seemed as if someone would finally listen to the challenges the historical profession is facing and seek to solve them. But our savior is not here yet. Clark tries and I think her attempts are on the right track. Chapter eight was good. It just left me wanting more. There are still many more questions that need to be answered. What do we do with modern texts? How can we actually make truth claims about the past, even through Clark’s method? What must be said of the problematic distinctions between history and other disciplines? 

So, is Clark’s book useful in this class? I still say absolutely! This was still my favorite thing we read all semester, by far. Clark breaks down all the perspectives we have already encountered this semester and places them in dialogue with one another. I know how Geertz relates to Levi-Straus and Bloch relates to the Annales school. Her analysis is spot on and incredibly valuable. Reading her at this point in the semester cemented everything that we have covered up to this point. Clark’s work is useful in that it challenges the reader to see the implications of certain historiographical theories and the valuable of intelligently forming such theories. For Clark, every historian, even when he/she expresses an apprehension to theory, operates within a certain theoretical framework, some good, others not so good. Clark challenges the historian to critically engage with historical theory and work to better the profession through providing good justification for the craft. 

I just which Clark had all the answers. I wish there was a chapter nine. I wish that we could solve the problems we have seen all semesters. 

Maybe we can’t, but I still think, like Clark, we should definitely try. 

