This book has been one of my favorite this semester. Clark really set up the book such an organized way that was easy for me to read along with. She has traced the lines that we have only created the dots for in class, in terms of all the different authors and critiques on history. She wrote a very clear history of historiography in the first four chapters of her book. Through the class we have talked about the ideas of Geertz Levi-Strauss, Scott, and de Certeau; and she reviewed them all. We have given our our critiques of them but never really reviewed the work of other scholars and professionals. Which was a really interesting insight. She brought everything together in a way that I loved. 

This book was placed in the schedule at a great time, first because of the authors, and second because of the resulting topics of discussion it created. Like I said before it made a neat graph for everyone to follow, that also followed the pattern of this course. The second reason is the discussion we got out of this. We never really spoke much about the actual content of the book, we talked about the bases of it, and wether this book is a history or not came up again and again. With all the back knowledge, of different arguments of what history is and how to practice it has helped us in our class debates. We spent for ever talking about “objective” history, and now we started talking about practical ways to do it. After all the authors we have read together and all the discussions we have had, we cannot agree as a class, wether or not Clark wrote a history; and that is fascinating to me. Our class is a small sample size of the issues historians are having, they (and us) can not cohesively decided how to answer a seemingly simple question “what constitutes as history?” She laid out the facts, and popped her opinion in once in a while. 

The end of this book was disappointing to me, I was expecting her to bring all of this theory and history together into a clear judgement or “thesis” about all of these critiques she has eloquently mapped out for us. Yet in the last third, she continues with the same pattern of history critique and then throws her opinion a bit. This was not what I was hoping for. Is there a second book to this, because there has to be more?
