<h2>On Clark, the finale</h2>
<p>Several classes ago, we addressed the question whether Clark’s “History, Theory, Text” is in fact a history book. I had said that this is a history book, but it is a history of the historiographical and theoretical debate from the 20th century. Now that we’ve completed her work, I feel my opinion has been reinforced. Clark continues to discuss the history of the debate from multiple angles – Rankean, Annalist, narrative, intellectual, contextual, etc.</p>
<p>I do feel that this approach, however, isn’t necessarily the most effective. Clark does so much back-and-forth discussion over the various schools of historiographical approaches that I left the book with more doubt about the best way to approach history rather than reinforce my values. </p>
<h4>Narrative’s efficacy</h4>
<p>Let us take narrative as an example. Humans throughout time utilized narrative styles to tell myths, literatures, or histories. Narratives cover such a wide range of subjects, meaning they offer a great jumping-off point for people based on their interest. They are the most accessible means to tell history, in my opinion, because people are always interested in a good story. </p>
<p>Sure, problems exist in narratives. They inherently follow grand historical events and do not necessarily coincide with everyday life. Hayden White, as described by Clark, offers some excellent questions in response to this criticism: “[D]o they imagine that dramatic events did not happen in history? Or does the fact that he events were ‘dramatic’ for some unknown reason rule them out as a proper subject for historical investigation?” (Clark, 100) For this reason, I cannot completely rule out the “great man” approach to history either. One cannot eradicate their role in history simply because narratives on great men only tell one side.</p>
<p>However, this back-and-forth discussion over narrative left me with some doubt whether this is the best approach, and there are problems with narratives. </p>
<p>Is intellectual history possible?</p>
<p>I left this chapter somewhat confused. Here is my issue: Arthur Lovejoy and R.G. Collingwood focus on this notion of “history of ideas,” essentially what people thought and why did they write it down. This seemingly spits in the face of postmodernism, or at least my understanding of postmodernists’ critique of text. We cannot get inside people’s heads and know what they think unless individuals communicate their thoughts. Since those of the past are not around to verbally tell us what they thought, intellectual historians only have written documents at their disposal.</p>
<p>Take all our comments, for example. These are used as a means to communicate our thoughts over each assigned readings. The comments are a glimpse inside each of our heads regarding our ideas. They are a means in which to commit our ideas in a format accessible to our peers. Even now, I am writing these words in order for you all to digest, analyze, and critique. Therefore, primary sources provide an avenue in which to communicate with the future. Are they perfect? No, of course not but why does should that discount their role. In many instances, they are the best we have at our disposal.</p>
<h4>Eliminating objectivity…I can’t do it</h4>
<p>Lastly, I want to address something Frank said in the last class, a sentiment that seemed shared by everyone else in class: since historians can’t be objective, just throw it out. If I am misquoting you, Frank, I apologize. That was the impression I got. I bring this up because Clark mentions the issues with objectivity in her last chapter as well.</p>
<p>I carry with me a strong ethical foundation as a result of my journalism experience, and objectivity in my job is firmly rooted among my core values. These never shut off. I have learned through this course that 100 percent objectivity is impossible. Too many factors come into play to maintain that dictate how and why we report or analyze events. When I write a basketball story, I write focusing more on UNM than the opponent in terms of quotes and game breakdown. This is a bias, albeit one based on reader interest. Biases unfortunately creep in even with our best intentions for objectivity. Historians deal with this, too.</p>
<o>So why does that mean we completely eliminate objectivity? To me, that is throwing out the baby with the bathwater. I feel in order to accurately tell a history, one must be as objective as possible. Historians can add transparency as long as they can acknowledge unavoidable biases and examine history with the pursuit of objectivity. Yes, perfect objectivity will not happen. But, to me, the pursuit of objectivity helps lend some credibility and without credibility, a historian has little worth.</p>
