<h2>J.R.'s thought on <i>History, Theory, Text</i>, first reading selection</h2>
<p>Accuse me of waffling or flip-flopping, if you’d like. I find myself moving away from the notion of historical pursuits as a social science. The idea sounded good in the early stages of this semester, especially with my journalistic goals for objectivity. To study and write about history objectively, to discover causality through the scientific method, I could get behind that approach.<p>
<h4>On historical laws</h4>
<p>As we have gone on, I have questions how objective we can be. Our own biases based on the times we live have an impact on the way we approach history. Even in this course, we discussed kinks that get thrown into the works (I curse you, post-modernism!).</p>
<p>This whole notion that there are historical laws is increasingly proven false, in my view. It is hard not to consider the view of Karl Popper’s critics about it, as discussed in Chapter 2. The point in unraveling causation is to determine historic laws, which would aim to prevent previous actions – the whole “those who don’t learn from history are doomed to repeat it” idea. Yet Clark includes the following passage:</p>
<blockquote>Historians should resist infatuation with nomothetic models; they need not “mutilate research into human affairs by remodeling the social sciences into deformed likenesses of physics.” Nor should historians pretend that they offer “weak” versions of scientific explanation, since historical explanation notions of reference and truth that ill fit the discipline, historians need only settle on a notion of objectivity appropriate to the field, and to do this, they need not pretend to be philosophers. Early-twentieth-century philosophers’ attempt to construe disciplines such as history represented (in Richard Rotary’s view) “a brief moment of megalomania.” (Pg 32-33)</blockquote>
<p>Why should history model itself after other disciplines? Sure, there are approaches the natural sciences and social sciences utilize that can be – and probably should be – applied to history, such as research and proving truth over lies. Philosophical and anthropological techniques are applicable to those in history. But history is a study in and of itself, independent of these other disciplines, and it should be considered as much. I still hold to the belief that history is the study of the human condition, how and why we are what we are based on the events which transpired before us. </p>
<h4>On absolute knowledge</h4>
<p>With that in mind, there will never be a 100 percent account of the past. We all know that and accepted that long ago. I do not necessarily subscribe to everything in the Arthur Danto section of Chapter 2 (to me, a much more interesting chapter than the first), but I do agree with his deal that there is no “perfect knowledge.” </p>
<p>His example of the Cicero slave girl not having as full a picture of the Roman Republic collapse is a strong one, and one that does stray away from the “bottom-up” approach. We in the future do have a fuller picture of that event. The slave girl was so narrowly focused that she could not possibly have a complete understanding of the events around her. That does not discount the role of the individual, of course. Yet, as we have previously discussed, how much can it really tell us about the fall of the Roman Republic?</p>
