Overall, Clark’s book was a little all over the place. It was difficult to catch her general argument because there seemed to be so little of her own original writing. If she is indeed making a critique of modern historical practice then she needs to be more direct about it, otherwise I feel like this book is trying to do different things, and most are falling by the wayside. The majority of the book is a history of historical debate, which would be satisfactory had we not read Iggers first, who I think did a much better job of synthesizing and explaining the major arguments of other historians and what influenced them. Although I did like that she mentioned many of the authors we have already read in the course, I think this book should either come before Iggers or the parts that are especially similar should not be assigned. Furthermore, though we have not finished discussing this book of course, I think it stands alone in its constant emphasis on of figuratively violent nature of the historical and theoretical debate. After reading this book, I realize I know very little about the depth and severity of this debate, and even less about its participants. The book is eye-opening in this respect but it needs something more in order to fully connect with the larger aspects of the course, or at least for me to understand it properly. 

In general, I think people need to stop writing histories of modern Western historical approaches. At this point, it has all been said as “objectively” as possible and people need to either focus on their opinion and propose solutions (though I do not really think there is much of a problem) or move on. 
