Until I read the end of Chapter 2 in Clark’s _History, Theory, Text_, I saw nothing wrong with the historiographical discussions that have been occurring for the past few decades. What Clark calls a “war,” I saw as the natural course of academia in which scholars critique and review one another and it leads to changes in historical approach as well as the emergence of new ideas. Iggers described this process at length in _Historiography_ and did not say a single negative word except briefly about post-modernists. It is difficult to believe that Clark is describing the same situation. In her account, not only are historians divided but they are also pitted against scholars from other fields of study, particularly philosophers and theorists. Until now, it was also my understanding that the “fight” was strictly within the historical community, and those arguing in the realm of theory and philosophy were historians with an added background in these subjects. However, Clark makes it seem as though some of the philosophers and theorists have no field experience in history. She mentions that some theorists become frustrated at historians’ inability to listen to them. If this is true, then perhaps there is a war in which historians are under siege because people who have not, or are not willing to, “climb the more than three hundred steps to the Lyon archive” are trying to call the shots in the discipline. Clark’s emphasis on the figuratively violent nature of these historiographical discussions prompts me to learn more about, and perhaps reevaluate, its gravity and its implications for the study of history.
