  After reading Clark’s work here, her obvious goal was to get her audience to question why they personally study history, take a slight interest in it or even its purpose in today’s society. In combination with reading Evans, Iggers, Carr, Strauss, etc, I see the vicious circle historians have been caught in on deciding how history should be taught, researched and practiced. But the one which resounds best is Evans’ theory that all historians will bash the former’s work for it resides in historians to be objective, and as time goes on technology gets better, thus our ability to record the past increases.

  It is no news that our ability to record our past, as humans, as dramatically increased and become more sufficient over the past 100 years. To reference the enlightenment and “The wealth of nations” by adam smith, he purposed that a free-market exists whether we like it or not. The free-market is just not in economics but in life. I firmly believe that as children of this late enlightenment period, we as Historians have been applying our own free-market of history to see which research, sources, evidence and present themselves best fit for that adventure towards the absolute truth. That is why Evan’s theory resounds best with the sources and authors at hand. To link this even further, Clark puts this exact emphasis on the use of ‘theory’ itself. Our objectivity against the former’s work shows Clark’s theory of theory itself in work. Its almost like a check and balance system on historian’s to keep pushing them towards the truth.

  Now I have always been a firm believer in History being the study of everything and the pursuit of the absolute truth, but as the semester has gone on, and all we’ve read has shown us that it isn’t that easy. Is it attainable? Anything is attainable we just haven’t figured it out yet. There is so much we as humans (subjecting ourselves to the will of science) haven’t even learned or accessed yet in the grand scheme of the universe that, hypothetically of course, we may just be at the beginning of this whole adventure for seeking the 100% impartial truth. Clark did present some doubt for me, but like Evan’s taught us: don’t be discouraged because you have one historian (clark) bashing the formers work.(in this case the entire way western history is studied) Personally I think its just the free market model I referenced in play. Historians are simply doing a trial and error run. Hell maybe we will find some model which completely out does the free market enlightenment model! We are, in the year 2015, in the midst of a paradigm shift so maybe that time is now and that’s why we’re all sitting here debating on how to find the truth about everything we humans hold so dear. It’s the story of us. What’s our story going to be; It’s up to us as historians to decide that I think.
