 **Overall**
 
Personally, I found Clark's work useful, although somewhat dry and boring at times.  However, I do appreciate the placement of the book.  Because Clark mentions many of the authors or specific events, such as the Great Cat Massacre, I felt that I was able to understand more. Had the book been one of the first we read, I am quite sure I would have hated it and just given up trying to understand, in addition to being utterly confused. I felt that Clark gave a summary of other historiographers.  However, these summaries helped me quite a bit as some refreshed what we had learned, but also helped me understand more. I was able to gain more comprehension about the authors we had read such as Bloch and Evans, that I had previously been confused about. Clark mentions many of the people that we have read, which made me understand their concepts more, and also give the reasons why they were wrong or criticized.  I now have no idea what theory or way of looking at history is correct (or how I should even approach history), as every way seems to have some fault. Nonetheless, Clark is the book that I would go to if I wanted to know what somebody thought about historiography and the criticisms and challenges that person faced.  However, I thought Clark never really got to her main point that she seemed to be leading up to. Throughout the book she kept referencing chapters six and seven, but by the time I got to those chapters, she continued giving the history of past historiographers. In chapter eight, I got confused as she was working on explaining her ideas but kept referencing many Christian texts and ideas.  It seemed that I never reached the main *“Ah ha”* moment.  However, she adds a somewhat new way of looking at history, which I am sure will have its many critics, in which she could write a new chapter to her book.  However, I do not think that every book we read should be about a new approach to history, instead, Clark's, book is a good example of the history of historiography and the criticisms theories produce.  The part that I liked the most about Clark’s book was really everything up until chapter eight because she clearly explained the past main historiographical ideas. 

 **to be in class or not to be** 
 
I think Clark was useful for the class and should be kept in the syllabus.  As stated above, Clark gives clear knowledge about past historiographers and works we have read, which is important as we approach the end of the semester.  I have gained a more expansive view on people and ideas such as Geertz, Bloch, Levi-Strauss, de Courteau, the Annales School, subjectivism, and many more. Clark’s book gives us, (as mentioned in class many times), the history of historiography.  Although her book can be hard to read at times, she still gives important information for the historiographical field. 
