“Where are you from?” This is undoubtedly one of the questions you will ask the most, and will answer the most, when traveling. This is because the effects that Place has upon its inhabitants is remarkable, and to know where someone is from provides instant context into this person’s collective history with their Place. As an individual, you are a product of your location in many ways, and the ways you perceive and interact with the world come as a result of how your Place perceives and interacts with the world. Come to think of it, much of historical study is dedicated to the ways in which individuals from different places interact with one another, and it would seem that most of a culture’s history is bound within its Place. One cannot truly experience Moroccan culture until going to morocco, because the genuine existence of that culture can only be found within that specific Place. There is the concern that such differences between places is becoming minimized due to the effects of globalization, although I would argue that the increased familiarity of other cultures as a result of globalization does not necessarily result in the erasure of cultural difference. 

It is not only people who are subject to the influences of Place, but also science and ideas such as the Enlightenment. Science and ideas do not occur within a place, but are rather the product of that place and will thus be understood differently depending on place. Take an idea from France and introduce it to the States, and it will undoubtedly change.

For all the importance Place has, it is nonetheless a socially defined concept that changes over time. Cities change names, as well as regions, as well as empires. Turkey is no longer considered part of the Ottoman Empire (“Ottoman” acting as somewhat of a classifier, or extension of its name). In what ways has this change in name affected the place? For one, it gives the inhabitants a choice of if they wish to remember their ottoman history, or identify with some other aspect of their culture’s past. In other words, it changes the ways in which the Turkish are expected to relate their Place’s history. 

Taking all of this into consideration, it is no wonder why travel can be so stressful. Any American who says they were not stressed one bit about their first trip to India is lying and should not be trusted. I say this because a visitor is not tied to the history of the Place they are visiting, they are unaware of the social nuances between locals that allow for the smooth functioning of that society, and to visit a place so different from your place is no easy business. There is only one way to truly familiarize oneself with any given Place, and that is to be there. Places hold power, in everyday life and in history; they grow, shrink, change, and stay the same. Place, and its influence on people and ideas, cannot be underestimated.
