Video Project Topic: Western Civ. 101/102 Syllabus 

For this project, I would like to take the opportunity to restructure the basic Western Civ. 101 course offered at the University. The primary goal of this project would to be to present a course syllabus that would create an intro history course that is more than just a general introduction to histories, but rather, an introduction to the study of history/research. This would involve some basic historiographic study, analyzing various methods and theories for the study of history, as we have touched on in our class. The emphasis would be to expose students to essentially the "best practices" for the study of history without entering into the deep philisophical discussions we have thus endured. The general exposure of these skills would then be intermingled with the general analysis of western civ. history, allowing for students to apply these skills in many ways and on a wide array of topics. I believe this is a better course for the course as the emphasis on skills as opposed to a general overview of history would be more beneficial to "all" students. For those students outside of history, many of the theories and methods we have discussed in regards to historiography can be applicable to various fields of research. And for those who would continue studying history, learning and knowing these skills up front could be more helpful in their sebsequent studies, especially as research becomes more technical. 

To accomplish this, I would essentially get a list of existing syllabi for Hist. 101/102 courses to as a basis for the topics that would be studied and, from the various historians and such that we have studied in class, apply various historiographical practices students should be using. I will have to destill the methods and theories of the various individuals to a basic core. The video would walk through this process, as I imagine the creation of a "historiographic standard" for these courses would be subject to great discussion, and then go through each general theory or method that I believe students should learn and how it would be applied in the course. Additionally, I would also present a few formats to evaluate how these concepts are being learned. 
