I go back to that question of why we study history. It isn’t to predict the future or to bore people to death about useless facts only Alex Trebek cares about. So why do I study history? For an answer, I look to civil war historian James McPherson when he stated “There are all kinds of myths that a people has about itself, some positive, some negative, some healthy and some not healthy. I think that one job of the historian is to try to cut through some of those myths and get closer to some kind of reality. So that people can face their current situation realistically, rather than mythically. I guess that's my sense of what a historian ought to do.” This of course calls into question the difference between myth and history. Myth is the popular belief about something that it incredibly wrong but continues to receive attention. In this context, I do not think of myth as a sacred story. For there have been myths that were once history and served a purpose culturally, but that it not what I refer to. Myth is the anger created by false information and the only benefit is to engage people through two minutes of hate. It has forced the creation of fact checking institutions such as factcheck.org or politifact.com. Myth can be a driver of policy both in government and in the private sector. History is more about a television trivia game and soothsaying. It reinforces just where we have been, where we are going and adds context to decision making. History forces us to view events and people from their perspective and not one with the benefit of the future. 

“What ya reading for?” is a favorite line of mine from late comedian Bill Hicks. Hicks died in 1994 and made logic and reason (at times) a central theme of his stand-up routine. That line, as Hicks points out is not “What are you reading” but rather it questions why anyone would read in the first place. I think that is how many people view history. They don’t ask what type of history we are studying, instead, they question the reasoning behind such an endeavor. Has it gotten so bad for history? Are we that inconsequential? If one would ask my sociology major daughter why people see little benefit in history she would reply that all historians are jerks and think they know everything. Perhaps that is my doing but only because we do know everything. We are inclusive when it comes to evidence. We have to become masters of different disciplines, jacks of all trades in academia. This comes with our innate ability to research, gather, and analyze critically all information. We are like Number 5 in the movie Short Circuit, we need more data. We are the ones who get excited about libraries and museums. We scoff at the History channel and its programming of such shows as Ancient Aliens. 

Most question history as a major due to the perceived lack of employability. I faced that same issue about 23 years ago when I enrolled in my first college course. It of course was a United States history class outlining the first half of our nation’s past. My parents, lacking their own college education, bought into the concept that education is the path to employment. They shared the opinion of Thornton Mellon played by Rodney Dangerfield in Back to School; “Without an education, you’re nobody!” After a few years of mediocre performance and an army of W’s on my transcript, I decided to forego my education and enter the workforce. In my short time on this planet I’ve noted that the employment benefit of a college degree depends on the industry or occupation. In my own occupation I’ve learned to write, to analyze, and to confront issues head on. My position has given me the opportunity to impact public policy and to instruct others. As an autodidact, I’ve also noticed that character and ambition matter. My argument isn’t that we shouldn’t study history or that it doesn’t matter, I suggest merely that we shouldn’t look at the college degree as the only path to employment. Therefore, we shouldn’t ask ourselves how a degree in history will help us, rather, we should embrace the skills we learn as students of history. 
How and why we study history seems to be the issue. Does it really make a difference if we prefer the long duree over micro-history? Why can’t we just focus on both? From my perspective, it is what most of us have understood history to be. History is so many different things according to philosophy, but I think most historians would describe history in much the same way that James McPherson describes it to be. How is the digital humanities any different from what we are already doing? Historians are already moving in the direction of interdisciplinary studies. The challenge for students of history is the amount of data available and what historians will do with it. We can’t just ignore it or hope that a private venture like Wikipedia collects information for all eternity. Ignoring it adds to the notion that the study or discipline of history is dead. It isn’t dead; it is alive in our analysis and what we offer to the world. 

The argument then turns to how history should be taught; what should the curriculum be? In college, we turn to the class known as Western Civilization. Specifically, what use is learning about Western Civilization for someone who is not a history student? For the most part, the United States government derives from the Enlightenment period which of course is a part of Western Civilization. Don’t history majors wonder why they are required to take college level math courses? A better question is where Western Civilization fits in the history curriculum for students of that discipline? If the student has a focus on Western Civilization then that should be the concentration. And that brings us to another question, what should the history curriculum be?

Historiography is a course required for every history major at UNM. Of course, a student may take a seminar class in place of historiography, but for the most part history students stick with the main class. And the course is challenging for the students who are engaged in the discussions that erupt over philosophical matters. The challenge for students isn’t where historiography should be in the curriculum, rather, it is the concentration in history. UNM lacks a specific concentration or set of concentrations that a student can focus on. I offer that a historiography class should be focused on the student’s concentration; however, there is no history concentration. 


