Okay so sometimes I think that we teach history pretty awfully and other times I think the system isn't **so bad**. When looking at what needs to be changed I think we need to look beyond college and start much earlier. Teaching history the way we teach it to kids in elementary school or in high school teaches this cloudy view of what history actually is and I think it misleads and disenchants people on the subject.

I guess what I mean is that we **should** continue to teach the grand narratives to give a well-rounded idea of history, but also teach things like micro histories **earlier**. Integrating primary and secondary sources earlier in education could also be a useful tool in education. 

As soon as people are in college and maybe even in high school ideas of theory in history should be taught. I honestly had no idea about the theories and ideas we learned about in this class. It’s important to understand why people write the way they do or interpret documents the way they do. It's also important to look at where history is headed. I get that it would be difficult to teach theory to younger students, but impossible? I think not. I wouldn’t go into as much detail as we did in this class, but *little* by *little* introducing these ideas will help us to understand them much better as we become well rounded historians. 

I would also recommend that this particular class be taught at the beginning of a historian’s college education rather than in their senior year. This class has changed so many things about history for me. Maybe a lower level Historiography class and then a more advance in depth class for seniors. 

I know having a class where my book was primary sources wasn’t a surprise to others, but I had never really had that before. Maybe because part of my education was in Arizona and part was at CNM, but even the upper level class I have taken at UNM I haven’t had a huge focus on primary sources except in the one class. Being able to locate, interpret, and use primary sources is really important and that was something I lacked until recently. I currently am in a Japanese history class and honestly I think it’s probably teaching me about Japan but it’s not teaching me how to be a historian about Japan. I can regurgitate random facts about Japan but not in a substantial way with information pertaining to actual documents. 

Last...we have talked a lot about what do you do with a history degree. **Well yeah what do you do with one?** A lot of us “historians” have to ask ourselves this question and *explain* it to other people. I think there should be a much **bigger** emphasis on how to utilize this degree and about what it is really teaching us to do. History is more than the past it is the future and the present. Historians need to not just be taught history and how to do history but also what to do with history. That was a lot of the word history in one sentence. 
