# We Don't Care What You Want, Here's Some History

<h4>Historiography as a Capstone to a History Degree</h4>

I liked this course, but, I don't think it shoud be a required class to graduate. I personally like historiography, and its where my interests within the field of hisotry has been going for awhile, but I don't think it should be required cause i don't think its required to understand history at the level we expect a undergraduate history major to. 

<h4>History Education at UNM and college in General</h4>

Listening to my classmates call for a reform of the was history is tought to non-history major made me angry. After they could bemoan, whine, and complain with me about the inanity of us having to take math classes, they had the gaul to call for a increased amount of history classes for other majors!!!! I get it, they feel history is important, but they're misguided completely in thinking that forcing other to learn it will make them care. All it will do is make them angry and frustrated with the fact that they even have to learn the subject. It will make them resent history the way we generally resent math. Taylor, in particular, continued to be very wrong on this topic in argung we should teach historiography to freshman within a western civ class!!! if I was a non-history major I would hate that. Forcing people who don't share your passion to do your passio, is a recipe for making both sides frustrated. Neither are getting what they want from it, and both sides are wasting there time. 

I do think theres room for improvement within history education, but it isn't through more history classes, it is from trying to incorporate more history into other subject as apart of learning that subject. History of Journalism for journalism majors, History of Political ideas for PolySci. Thats my only real suggestion. By and large i like the hisotry education at UNM. Its flexible and allows you to study youre interests. While there are some areas UNM doesn't cover, thats only to be expected when UNM can't have a proffessor for every subject. Complaining that UNM doesn't have Japanese History classes is, frankly, dimwitted. You wouldent go to some off the beaten track University in Japan and pout and whine about the last of lcasses on the American Civil War, or American Feminism, or some other very specifically american class. Clark talks about context, and many of the doubters of history instruction at UNM need to think about the context UNM exists in before complaining. 

Lastly, I disagree with people in the calss calling themselves, or us as a whole "Historians". Besides the professor, as far as I know, are historians. Now, I know the term historian is a little vague cause it doesn't seem like there are specific guidelines to what makes one a historian, but I don't think we qualify. I naturally dislike when peopel make a clain to a title they haven't earned and I felt like it was done constantly throughout the semester. But, I liked this class, But I hated GitHub. I don't understand why we're using a system not designed for what we're trying to do. Doesn't UNM learn have a similar function? I still don't feel like I understand GitHub.  
