 **What I like**

I both like and dislike the history curriculum here at UNM.  I appreciate the fact that as a double major, I do not have to have a concentration in history.  This allows me to take whatever history class suits my fancy.  Although I have the areas that I enjoy, such as the American Civil War and the Tudor Era. **I am grateful that I am not restricted to specific courses.**  I love the fact that I can learn about the Bolshevik Revolution, magic in the Middle Ages, and the French Revolution. This gives me a wide variety, where I can learn more about different topics that interest me. 

 **What I don’t like**

However, after taking this class, I don’t necessarily care for the way history is taught in the lower divisions, or the way it seems to be forced upon every freshman. These generic classes only give a brief overview of major events in history.  Many people, including history majors, don’t always care for these classes.  I still have yet to take Western Civ 102. I am dreading taking this class, as I realize how much I care about the smaller details.  **All throughout middle and high school, all of world history or American history was taught in one semester, meaning we focused on major events for about two, maybe three days tops. The lower division classes at UNM are similar, and I am unable to fully understand how this can 1) be fun to teach, 2) the use it has to fully comprehending history, and 3) how this is expected to be interesting to anybody, especially people who don’t care for history in the first place.**  Therefore, I think the history curriculum needs to be rethought, at least in the lower levels.

**What I think is best**

**I truly believe that everybody can love history, as long as they find the right history to love.**  I’ve said in class many times that **I think history should be catered to a person’s major**, and I stand by that.  Although I understand why Western Civ is offered, I think there is a better approach, which is wait until somebody declares a major before they take a history class. Meaning, people who want to go into biology, should be required to take at least one history course in biology.  It’s probably already hidden in many of their classes.  Taking a class in a specific subject that is catered to a person’s major, will spark interest.  It will also save future professors the trouble of retelling the history of the subject, because it would already be required, allowing the class to move forward faster. Yes, there is a dilemma with this, 

 >“what do we do with people who have no idea what they want to do in life?  Shouldn’t we expose them to every possible subject including history to figure out where their passion lies?”

This is a good question, but my response is that because history has been taught throughout the education system, if a person did not care for history before, they more than likely aren’t going to find it fascinating now. Therefore, making a person go through a specific class just to meet requirements is torture.  Instead, **make history required in every subject/major/field taught.**  That is not saying Western Civ should be discarded.  Instead, it should be available to history majors, in order for them to find out what specific type of history they find interesting, which paves the way for the rest of their history paths at UNM. Western Civ can be useful to history majors, but **specific histories will be favored by more people.**  
