# The Year's End 

This course was a very interesting analysis of the developments of history over the ages, and in my mind, quickly became *"the Philosophy of History."* Indeed, through the semester, I have learned more about the particulars toward the study of history than I ever knew existed and it challenged my perspective on history. I have always been of the opinion that the study of history serves humanity's greater interest; that the pursuit of the our past will illuminate the path toward the future. I believed that through dedicated research and personal commitment, the truths could be destilled from the past and could help better guide the present. 

This course has shown me the realtive naivete of such an opinion. From what we have read and seen, apparently the  course of history is less to assist the formation of new policies, but rather to just be. A historian's role is no more than merely a presenter of the historical record. Additionally, the goals of actively pursuing the complete compilation of the historical truth is a folly, as the very nature of the historical record compromised. The historians compiling the information are baised and affect the materials produce. The evidence upon which the truth is based is completely subjective. And of course, no explanations for the causation of events should ever be found. 

These things all may be true, but I do not think it matters as much as so many of the authors we have read would emphasize. Yes, each of the schools of thought toward history are complicated and offer their own individual merits and problems. But, as I have come to realize, they contribute to the *greater historial truth* in thier own right. I believe the greatest value like a course like this can offer is not the standardization of the historical practices, but rather the exposure to the various methods used by others. Our class was at its greatest when we disagreed and argued and the same must be said about the study of history. I once said that I believe we are only capable of uncovering 10% of the True history. I hold fast to that. But we can more comprehensively understand that truth by allowing widespread particpation, from anyone, with any methods and education. We must allow the marketplace of ideas to dissuade the extremities and outliers, and to allow the debates to improve and refine. Whether its microhistory or the long duree, each contribute something, and it is the combiniation of all the efforts of all the historians, however large or small, that will guide us into the future. 
